https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_Norfolk,_Virginia

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs to be updated . Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. ( April 2013 ) Since Norfolk serves as the commercial and cultural center for the geographical region of Hampton Roads (and in its political structure of independent cities), it can be difficult to separate the economic characteristics of Norfolk, from that of the region as a whole. The waterways which almost completely surround the Hampton Roads region also play an important part in the local economy. As a strategic location at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay, its protected deep water channels serve as major arteries for the import and export of goods from across the Mid-Atlantic, Mid-West, and international destinations, as well as being the location of the world's largest naval base. [ 1 ] Military [ edit ] USS John F. Kennedy (CV-67) arriving at Naval Station Norfolk Hampton Roads is a major military center, particularly for the United States Navy , and Norfolk serves as the home for the most important of these regional installations, Naval Station Norfolk . Located on Sewell's Point Peninsula , in the northwest corner of the city, the installation is the current headquarters of the Atlantic Fleet , as well as being home port for the 2nd Fleet , which compromises approximately 62,000 active duty personnel, 75 ships, and 132 aircraft. Norfolk is also home to Naval Support Activity Hampton Roads , the headquarters to the Allied Command Transformation ( NATO ) and the United States Joint Forces Command . The region also plays an important role in defense contracting, with particular emphasis in the shipbuilding and ship repair businesses for the city of Norfolk. Major private shipyards located in Norfolk include: BAE Systems Ship Repair , Colonna's Shipyard , and NASSCO . Most contracts fulfilled by these shipyards are issued by the Navy, though some private commercial repair also takes place. When combined with other important regional military installations such as Naval Air Station Oceana , Norfolk Naval Shipyard (in Portsmouth), Langley Air Force Base , and Naval Amphibious Base Little Creek , and along with other important defense contractors, the military serves as the region's economic backbone and cultural focal point. As of 2004, it was estimated that over 35% of Gross Regional Product (which includes the entire Norfolk-Newport News-Virginia Beach MSA), was attributable to defense spending, and 75% of all regional growth since 2001 was attributable to increases in defense spending. [ 2 ] Commercial ports [ edit ] After the military, the 2nd largest and most important industry for Hampton Roads and Norfolk based on economic impact are the region's cargo ports. Headquartered in Norfolk, the Virginia Port Authority (VPA) is a Commonwealth of Virginia owned-entity that, in turn, owns and operates three major port facilities in Hampton Roads for break-bulk and container type cargo. In Norfolk, Norfolk International Terminals (NIT) represents one of those three facilities and is the location of the world's largest and fastest container cranes. [ 3 ] Together, the 3 terminals of the VPA handled a total of over 2 million TEUs and 475,000 tons of breakbulk cargo in 2006, making it the 2nd* busiest port on the east coast of North America by total cargo volume after the Port of New York and New Jersey. In addition, just across the Elizabeth River in Portsmouth, Maersk is spending $450 million to open the largest container terminal on the East Coast sometime in late 2007. [ 4 ] In addition to NIT, Norfolk is home to Lambert's Point Docks, the largest coal trans-shipment point in the Northern Hemisphere, with annual throughput of approximately 48 million tons. [ 5 ] Bituminous coal is primarily sourced from the Appalachian mountains in western Virginia, West Virginia , and Kentucky . The coal is loaded onto trains and sent to the port where it is unloaded onto large breakbulk cargo ships and destined for New England, Europe, and Asia primarily. Most major shipping lines have a permanent presence in the region with some combination of sales, distribution, and/or logistical offices, many of which are located in Norfolk. In addition, many of the largest international shipping companies have chosen Norfolk as their North American headquarters. These companies are either located at the Norfolk World Trade Center building or have constructed buildings in the Lake Wright Executive Center office park . Among them include: CMA CGM - The French firm and world's 3rd largest shipping line has its North American headquarters in Norfolk. [ 6 ] Zim Integrated Shipping Services - An Israeli owned shipping line and the 13th largest in the world, also has its North American headquarters in Norfolk. [ 7 ] Maersk Line Limited - A subsidiary of the world's largest shipping line, A.P. Moller-Maersk Group , specializing in US government shipping contracts. [ 8 ] Tourism [ edit ] Though Virginia Beach and Williamsburg have traditionally been the centers of tourism for the region, the rebirth of downtown Norfolk and the construction of a cruise ship pier at the foot of Nauticus in downtown has driven tourism to become an increasingly important part of the city's economy. The number of cruise ship passengers who visited Norfolk increased from 50,000 in 2003, to 107,000 in 2004 and 2005. Also in April 2007, the city completed construction on a $36 million state-of-the-art cruise ship terminal alongside the pier. [ 9 ] Partly due to this construction, passenger counts dropped to 70,000 in 2006, but is expected to rebound to 90,000 in 2007, and higher in later years. Unlike most cruise ship terminals which are located in industrial areas, the downtown location of Norfolk's terminal has received favorable reviews from both tourists and the cruise lines who enjoy its proximity to the city's hotels, restaurants, shopping, and cultural amenities. [ 10 ] Companies headquartered in Norfolk [ edit ] Trader Square, headquarters of Dominion Enterprises BlackHawk Products Group - provides tactical gear such as holsters, body armor, and backpacks to the U.S. Defense Department and law enforcement agencies throughout the world. [ 11 ] FHC Health Systems, one of the top 250 largest private companies in the US, specializing in health care management ( ValueOptions ), health services, and online medical reports. [ 12 ] Landmark Communications , one of the country's largest privately owned media companies with ownership of several daily newspapers, local TV stations, specialty publications, and most famously, The Weather Channel and weather.com. [ 13 ] Dominion Enterprises , a wholly owned subsidiary of Landmark Communications , a print and internet media group that includes numerous specialty publications and online classifieds. The company recently finished construction on a headquarters in downtown. [ 14 ] Lombart Instrument, the largest distributor of ophthalmic instruments based in the United States. Portfolio Recovery Associates Ticker: PRAA, primary business is the purchase, collection, and management of defaulted customer receivables. [ 15 ] Sentara Healthcare - a nonprofit healthcare organization that operates ten hospitals Optima Health - a health management organization MDV Nash Finch References [ edit ] ^ "Naval Station Norfolk" . globalsecurity.org . Retrieved 19 February 2024 . ^ "The State of the Region: Regional Economy" (PDF) . Old Dominion University. 2004. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 October 2004 . Retrieved 11 October 2007 . ^ "Norfolk International Terminals" . Virginia Port Authority. Archived from the original on 3 August 2007 . Retrieved 6 August 2007 . ^ "The Port of Hampton Roads" (PDF) . Hampton Roads Economic Development Authority. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 August 2007 . Retrieved 6 August 2007 . ^ "Lamberts Point" . Globalsecurity.org . Retrieved 19 February 2024 . ^ Lyne, Jack (2004). "CMA-CGM Picks Norfolk, Va., as Port of Call for 376-Employee HQ" . The Site Selection Magazine . Retrieved 19 February 2024 . ^ "Hampton Roads Economic Development Alliance Announces U.S. Headquarters For Norfolk: Zim-American Israeli Shipping Co. to relocate from New York and create 235 jobs" (PDF) . Hampton Roads Economic Development Authority. 2 April 2001. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 August 2007 . Retrieved 6 August 2007 . ^ "Maerske Line Ltd" . Maerske Line Ltd. Archived from the original on 9 October 2007 . Retrieved 10 October 2007 . ^ Seldon, Lynn (2006). "Norfolk: gateway to colonial Virginia & home to maritime heritage" . Cruise Travel . Archived from the original on 28 May 2006 . Retrieved 11 October 2007 . ^ "Cruise Norfolk" . Norfolk Cruise Terminal. Archived from the original on 12 August 2007 . Retrieved 9 August 2007 . ^ "Contact Us" . BlackHawk Products Group. Archived from the original on 11 September 2007 . Retrieved 12 October 2007 . ^ "Contacts" . FHC Health Systems . Retrieved 12 October 2007 . ^ "About Us" . Landmark Communications. Archived from the original on 21 October 2007 . Retrieved 12 October 2007 . ^ "About Us" . Dominion Enterprises . Retrieved 12 October 2007 . ^ "Contact Information" . Portfolio Recovery Associates. Archived from the original on 18 August 2007 . Retrieved 12 October 2007 . v t e City of Norfolk, Virginia Topics Downtown History Timeline Neighborhoods Police Culture People Sports Media Economy Elizabeth River Attractions Attucks Theatre Chrysler Hall Chrysler Museum of Art Harbor Park Harrison Opera House MacArthur Memorial Nauticus Norfolk Botanical Garden Norfolk Scope Virginia Zoo Waterside District Wells Theatre Mermaids Military Naval Station Norfolk Camp Allen Fort Norfolk Joint Forces Staff College Lambert's Point Deperming Station Transportation Norfolk International Airport Norfolk Amtrak station The Tide Education Norfolk Public Schools Granby HS Lake Taylor HS Matthew Fontaine Maury HS Norview HS Booker T. Washington HS Governor's School for the Arts Norfolk State University Old Dominion University Media The Virginian-Pilot (headquartered in Norfolk prior to 2020) See also: Hampton Roads Metropolitan Area , Virginia Category v t e Economy of the United States by jurisdiction State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Federal District District of Columbia Territories American Samoa Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico U.S. Virgin Islands Indian Reservations Black Feet Nation Flathead Indian Reservation Navajo Nation Osage Nation Pine Ridge Indian Reservation Seneca Cities or counties Allentown Atlanta Buffalo Chicago Cleveland Columbus Detroit Door County Erie Houston Indianapolis Kansas City Lexington Long Island Louisville Memphis New York City Norfolk Omaha Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Salt Lake City San Diego Spokane St. Louis Stamford Youngstown Washington, D.C. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Economy_of_Norfolk,_Virginia&oldid=1293432625 " Category : Economy of Norfolk, Virginia Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia articles in need of updating from April 2013 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Use dmy dates from February 2024