https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strap_wrench

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Strap wrench" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A strap wrench is any of various types of wrench that grip an object via a strap or chain being pulled in tension around it until it firmly grips. High static friction keeps it from slipping. [ 1 ] Many strap wrenches have built-in handles. Others are made to receive the square drive of a ratchet wrench . The strap or chain can have various forms. Some straps are made of polymers , and are smooth, highly flexible, non-marring, high-friction straps. (Before the era of commercial polymers, the straps were of leather or rubber .) Other straps are bands of spring steel , moderately flexible, slightly firmer and more likely to mar than the polymer variants. The chains tend to be of the roller chain type (like a bicycle chain ). Types [ edit ] Oil-filter wrenches [ edit ] Many oil-filter wrenches are actually strap wrenches. Others are of the socket type or the pliers type. Chain whips (e.g., for bicycle work) [ edit ] A chain whip is a tool used to tighten and loosen threaded sprockets on a bicycle . It is called a chain whip because it has a short section of chain used to grip the sprocket. An alternative method to tighten sprockets is the rotafix method, which uses no tools. Piston-ring compressors [ edit ] Piston-ring compressors are strap wrenches that evenly squeeze (compress) the piston rings around a piston long enough to slide it into a cylinder . They look a lot like an oil-filter wrench of the strap type (except they are a flat piece of metal that wraps around the piston).  If no wrench is available, an old piston ring snapped into two halves can be used to compress each of the new rings as the piston is inserted. Gallery [ edit ] A strap wrench variant. A strap wrench variant (one form of oil filter wrench). A strap wrench variant (one form of oil filter wrench). A strap wrench variant (one form of oil filter wrench). A chain whip tool, wrapped around a sprocket. References [ edit ] ^ Harland, John H. (January 2, 2015). "The Evolution of the Windlass in the Nineteenth Century". The Mariner's Mirror . 101 (1): 38– 62. doi : 10.1080/00253359.2015.994874 . v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking v t e Bicycle tools Hub, wheel, and tire Bicycle pump Cone wrench Spoke wrench Tire lever Wheel truing stand Headset Hex key Drivetrain and bottom bracket Chain tool Chain whip Peanut butter wrench Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Strap_wrench&oldid=1273165503 " Categories : Bicycle tools Chains Wrenches Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2018 All articles needing additional references