https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brace_(tool)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of hand drill This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Brace" tool – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( March 2010 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A brace with various bits A brace is a hand tool used with a bit ( drill bit or auger ) to drill holes, usually in wood . Pressure is applied to the top while the handle is rotated. If the bit's lead and cutting spurs are both in good working order, the user should not have to apply any pressure other than for balance: the lead will pull the bit through the wood. The earliest carpenter's braces equipped with a U-shaped grip, that is with a compound crank , appeared between 1420 and 1430 in Flanders . [ 1 ] Types [ edit ] Bits used to come in a variety of types but the more commonly used Ridgeway and Irwin-pattern bits also rely on a tip called a snail, which is a tapered threaded screw that pulls the bit forward. Handle [ edit ] The U-shaped handle is a crank . It gives the brace much greater torque than other kinds of hand-powered drills. A brace and bit can be used to drill wider and deeper holes than can a geared hand-powered drill. The cost of the greater torque is lower rotational speed; it is easy for a geared hand drill to achieve a rotational speed of several hundred revolutions per minute , while it would require considerable effort to achieve even 100 rpm with a brace. Spindle [ edit ] The front of the brace consists of a chuck spindle with V-shaped brackets or clamps inside. Turning the spindle of the chuck in a clockwise direction tightens the drill bit in the chuck;  turning counterclockwise loosens the bit for removal. A carpenter using a brace The U-shaped crank has a wooden spindle on it and—along with the top spindle—is allowed to freely turn under the hands without stressing the hands, thus preventing blisters . Gear release [ edit ] In most modern braces, immediately behind the chuck is a three position gear release that allows ratcheting of the handle when in tight spots. Turning the gear release from the center position allows ratcheting the brace in the required direction. Turning the gear release fully clockwise lets it remove wood in a clockwise direction with the ratchet action going counterclockwise. Placing the gear release fully counterclockwise  allows turning the brace and bit in a counterclockwise direction, usually to remove the drill bit from the hole. The center position of the gear release prohibits the ratcheting effect. Alternative names [ edit ] The brace has other names. Bit brace is the most often used name, but carpenter's brace , ratchet brace (if a ratchet mechanism is incorporated into the design), and swing brace are also commonly used. See also [ edit ] Hand drills for some related tools, including the type sometimes known as a wheel brace. Citations [ edit ] ^ White 1962 , p. 112 General and cited references [ edit ] Adamson, John, "The Ultimatum brace: a feat of engineering", Furniture & Cabinetmaking , issue 264, December 2017, pp. 52–5 Eaton, Reg (1989). The Ultimate Brace: A Unique Product of Victorian Sheffield . King's Lynn: Erica Jane Publishing ISBN 978-0-9514695-0-7 OCLC 21348455 Russell, David R. , with Robert Lesage and photographs by James Austin , cataloguing assisted by Peter Hackett (2010). Antique Woodworking Tools: Their Craftsmanship from the Earliest Times to the Twentieth Century Cambridge: John Adamson ISBN 978-1-898565-05-5 , "Boring tools: drills and braces", pp. 459–90 White, Lynn Jr. (1962). Medieval Technology and Social Change . Oxford: At the Clarendon Press. v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Brace_(tool)&oldid=1314919681 " Categories : 15th-century inventions Hole making Mechanical hand tools Woodworking hand tools Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from March 2010 All articles needing additional references