https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69686833/2027-kia-seltos-reveal

VIEW GALLERY Kia The big news from Kia about its strong-selling Seltos subcompact SUV is threefold: It’s been totally redesigned (with more interior space and tech features) as a second-generation model; it will be sold as a hybrid; and it will be available in Europe and most other places. Because of all of these factors, Ho Sung Song, Kia’s president and CEO,  said during an online presentation December 8 that he “aims to achieve global average sales of more than 430,000 units per year.” The target for North America is 130,000 per year. “The Seltos has been a very successful SUV for us,” Song said. “We have sold more than two million cars in the last five years.” The first-generation Seltos was launched in 2019 and made it the US in 2021. Related Story How Much Would You Pay for a Genesis G90 Wingback? Seltos global sales in the full year 2024 was 312,246, making it the company’s second best-selling SUV around the world (though it’s fifth on the list in the US). Kia America sold 32,786 Seltos SUVs through June this year, and 59,958 for all of last year. The company is hoping for better with the new model. No pricing or US launch date was announced, but the Seltos will be an affordable Kia, taking the place in some ways of the outgoing Soul. Song dismissed the idea that tariffs would mean an expensive Seltos in the US. “To make a top-selling model, we need to price the Seltos competitively,” he said. Kia’s “The Protagonist” marketing campaign is meant to position the second-generation Seltos for the 2027 model year as integral to pursuing its owners’ dreams. A brief dramatic film shown during the reveal imagined three such buyers using the Seltos to further their personal goals. Charles Ryu, executive vice president and head of Kia’s global brand, said the Seltos buyer is “trend and tech savvy, proactive in self-expression and eager to embrace challenges.” VIEW GALLERY Kia The new Seltos isn’t all that much bigger than the old one, but it’s now 174.4 inches long, up from 172.6) and 105.9 inches in the wheelbase (from 103.5). The car is also wider by an inch, and not much changed at 63 inches tall. Luggage space is extended to 18.9 cubic feet. Other new features are thicker glass for quieter cruising, several refinements for better ride and handling, and a rigid structure with 61% high-strength steel. Song said the Seltos is moving from the K2 to the K3 C-segment platform, and was thoroughly redesigned. K2 is shared by some Hyundai models, and the K3 by the Hyundai Elantra and Kona, the Kia Niro and K4. Spencer Cho, Hyundai Motor Group’s global product planning chief, said that focus groups and surveys of customers and dealers showed a desire for “more space and utility inside the vehicles, which is why we extended the overall dimensions and added convenience features. They wanted more technology, and also more eco-friendly options, which is why we added the hybrid powertrain.” Related Story Nissan Rogue Hybrid Coming—as a Series Hybrid Karim Habib, Kia head of global design, called the angular Seltos “dynamic and rugged with an upright platform,” and indeed as shown with big wheels (up to 19 inches), sharp angles and plenty of cladding it did look ready for off-road duty (though the Seltos is also positioned as an urban warrior). There’s a wide skid plate underneath, and a wide front grille (with vertical grille bars and integrated headlights) “to emphasize the purposeful stance,” Habib said. The grille is outlined with “Star Map” LED lighting, which also accents the rear. Interior features include 64-color mood lighting, infotainment from Bose and Harman Kardon, fold-flat second row, and front-row “relaxation” seats that adjust by 24 degrees, plus rears with 12 inches of travel. The panoramic display (30 inches total) combines two 12.3-inch screens and a climate control panel. There’s an AI assistant powered by ChatGPT, a new head-up display, Kia’s Highway Driving Assist 2 (with an automatic lane change feature), over-the-air-update capability, and a useful parking distance warning among a suite of ADAS systems. VIEW GALLERY Kia The forthcoming hybrid powertrain will come with Kia’s latest 3.0 “smart” regenerative braking system, but there’s not much more information about it now. Speculation is that the setup will consist of a 1.6- or 1.8-liter gas engine and electric motor, with a somewhat similar setup to the Hyundai Kona Hybrid. The 2025 edition of the hybrid Kona produces a combined 139 horsepower with a six-speed dual-clutch transmission and fuel economy of 51 city/48 highway. Customers can also choose a 1.6-liter T-GDI turbo gas engine in standard or high-output form, or a naturally aspirated two-liter gas engine. The standard output offers 177 horsepower and 195 lb-ft of torque, and the high output up to 190 horsepower and the same torque rating. The two-liter, optimized for fuel efficiency, is 146 hp and 132 lb-ft. The US may only get the more powerful of the 1.6-liter powerplants. Related Story Subaru’s 2026 Trailseeker Will Sticker for $41,445 The standard 1.6 will be sold with either a seven-speed DCT transmission or a six-speed manual, and the high-output with an eight-speed automatic. There are Eco, Normal, and Sport drive modes. All-wheel drive is optional on the Seltos. Launch colors are Iceberg Green, Gravity Green and a matte finish Magna Red. The Seltos will initially be built in India starting in December, but production will expand to Korea and China next year, Song said. The lower LX, EX, and SX trims will be joined by upmarket GT-Line and X-Line versions. Jim Motavalli Contributing Editor Jim Motavalli is an auto writer and author (nine books) who contributes to Autoweek and Barron’s Mansion Global. He has written two books on electric cars, Forward Drive (2000) and High Voltage (2010), and hosts the Plugging In podcast. Motavalli’s writing has appeared in the New York Times, CBS Moneywatch, Car Talk at NPR, Forbes, US News and World Report, Sierra Magazine, Audubon, and many more. In his spare time, he reviews books and jazz.