https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mazda_Nagare

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is about the concept car. For the design series of the same name in which this car is part of, see Mazda Nagare (car design) . This article includes a list of general references , but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. ( September 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Motor vehicle Mazda Nagare Overview Manufacturer Mazda Production 2006 Designer Laurens van den Acker Body and chassis Class Concept car Body style 2-door coupe Related Mazda Taiki Mazda Ryuga Mazda Hakaze Mazda Furai Powertrain Engine Rumored hydrogen-fueled rotary engine Chronology Successor Mazda Furai The Mazda Nagare ( マツダ・流 , Matsuda Nagare ) (pronounced “nah-gah-reh”) was a concept car that was introduced by Mazda at the 2006 Los Angeles Auto Show . The Nagare was considered to be an exercise in natural and organic car design to explore the future of Mazda automobiles. Its name “Nagare” translates into English as “flow” and the designers specifically studied motion and the effect it has on natural surroundings when creating this vehicle. It was designed by Laurens van den Acker , Mazda's global design director at the time (since replaced by Ikuo Maeda), and his advanced design studio team in Irvine, California . As head of the international Nagare design team, Laurens’ main task from Mazda was to design first and engineering later. “The Nagare is a celebration of proportions and surface language that will evolve into subsequent designs planned for presentation at future international auto shows. Nagare examines light and shadow, and begins to reveal the global design cues for the next generation of Mazda vehicles,” said Laurens. “We’re looking well down the road with Nagare. We want to suggest where Mazda design will be in 2020. To do that, we redefined basic proportions and the idea of driving without losing the emotional involvement. Mazda’s driving spirit will be enhanced and intensified by Nagare.” Design [ edit ] The Mazda Nagare was a celebration of proportions and surface language according to its designers. Its bodylines flowed like liquid across its smooth seamless design and there were no distinguishing marks that detracted from the overall theme of the car. It had a large windshield that raked at a very steep angle molding itself into the glass roof of the car. Its large and aggressive wheels were wrapped into the wheel wells, incorporating them as a part of the body. Two double-length doors hinged forward when opened and spread from the cabin like the wings of a butterfly. Inside, you could find the driver's seat centrally located in the front of the cabin and three passenger rear seats arranged in a "wrap-around lounge" in the back. The interior continued the Nagare's organic themes with futuristic elliptical controls and dials relating information to the driver. Mazda aimed to maintain the soul of a sports car with the design of the Nagare. The body work was designed with both form and function in mind, aiming to decrease drag. The wheels of the Nagare were also positioned at the far corners of the envelope for quick steering response and agile maneuverability. Engine [ edit ] Powertrain details were largely speculated at the time. Mazda has never released any information on the specifics of the engine and its performance because they wanted to focus on the design elements of the car. Gallery [ edit ] 2006 Los Angeles International Auto Show Rear view References [ edit ] LA Auto Show: Concept Cars "autos.yahoo." Jon Alain Guzik, December 2006.  Retrieved on 2007-01-15. LA Auto Show: Mazda Nagare Concept wedges into the spotlight "autoblog." John Neff, Nov 29th 2006. Retrieved on 2007-01-15. LA Auto Show "LA Auto Show." Retrieved on 2007-01-15. Nagare Concept Gallery "Mazda Nagare Concept Gallery." Retrieved on 2010-01-20. External links [ edit ] Mazda Nagare - Official Mazda Site Nagare Press Release - Official Mazda press release v t e Mazda Current Cars Mazda2 Hybrid Mazda3 EZ-6/6e SUVs/crossovers CX-3 CX-30 CX-5 CX-50 CX-60 CX-70 CX-8 CX-80 CX-90 MX-30 EZ-60 Pickup trucks Bongo Truck BT-50 Commercial vans Bongo Brawny Bongo Van Familia Van Commercial trucks Titan Sports cars MX-5/MX-5 Miata/Roadster Kei vehicles Carol Flair Flair Crossover Flair Wagon Scrum Truck Scrum Van Scrum Wagon Upcoming models CX-20 CX-5e Discontinued models Mazda6/Atenza 929 AZ-1 AZ-Offroad AZ-Wagon Biante B Series Capella/626 Cosmo CX-4 CX-7 CX-9 Demio/121 Familia/323/Protegé Mazda-Go K360 Lantis/323F Laputa Luce Millenia MPV/Mazda8 MS-8 MX-3 MX-6 Navajo Parkway Pathfinder XV-1 Persona Premacy/Mazda5 R360 Revue RX-7 RX-8 RX-8 Hydrogen RE Savanna Sentia Spiano Tribute Verisa VX-1 Xedos 6 Concepts Chantez EV Furai Hakaze Hazumi HR-X Ibuki Iconic SP Kabura Kai Kazamai Kiyora Koeru Minagi MX-5 Speedster MX-5 Super 20 MX-81 Nagare Premacy Hydrogen RE Hybrid RX-01 RX-500 RX-Vision Ryuga Shinari Suitcase Car Takeri Taiki Vision Coupe Former marques Amati Autozam ɛ̃fini Eunos Engines I4 OHV engine xC engine E engine F engine G engine B engine MZR engine Z engine L engine YF engine SkyActiv V6 J engine K engine AJ/MZI Other V-twin engine Diesel engine Wankel family International operations Mazda North American Operations Mazda Toyota Manufacturing USA (50%) Changan Mazda (50%) AutoAlliance Thailand (50%) See also Mazda road vehicle timeline ( 1960–1989 ) ( 1990s–present ) Vehicles Factories Ford Motor Company M2 Mazdaspeed Zoom-Zoom Cars Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mazda_Nagare&oldid=1310100424 " Category : Mazda concept vehicles Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from September 2018 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles containing Japanese-language text