https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Mercedes-Benz

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the Mercedes-Benz article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the subject of the article. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit ; get help . Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google ( books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs ) · FENS · JSTOR · TWL Archives ( index ): 1 Auto-archiving period : 31 days This article is written in British English , which has its own spelling conventions ( colour , travelled , centre , defence , artefact , analyse ) and some terms may be different or absent from other varieties of English . According to the relevant style guide , this should not be changed without broad consensus . This level-5 vital article is rated B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to the following WikiProjects : Automobiles Top‑importance Cars portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Automobiles , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of automobiles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Automobiles Wikipedia:WikiProject Automobiles Template:WikiProject Automobiles Automobile Top This article has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale . Germany Top‑importance Germany portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Germany , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Germany on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Germany Wikipedia:WikiProject Germany Template:WikiProject Germany Germany Top This article has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale . Companies Top‑importance Companies portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Companies , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of companies on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Companies Wikipedia:WikiProject Companies Template:WikiProject Companies company Top This article has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale . WikiProject Companies To-do: Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Article requests : Wikipedia:Requested articles/Business and economics/Companies Assess : Category:Unassessed company articles Copyedit : Category:Company articles needing attention Infobox : Category:Company articles needing infoboxes Maintain : Portal:Companies Stubs : Help expand stub articles located at Category:Company stubs Other : Tag company articles with the {{ portal |Companies}} template Tag company talk pages with the {{ WikiProject Companies }} project banner Answer requests for comments Brands Top‑importance This article is within the scope of WikiProject Brands , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of brands on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Brands Wikipedia:WikiProject Brands Template:WikiProject Brands Brands Top This article has been rated as Top-importance on the project's importance scale . On 29 March 2024, it was proposed that this article be moved to Mercedes–Benz . The result of the discussion was Withdrawn . Archives ( index ) Index 1 This page has archives. Sections older than 31 days may be auto-archived by Lowercase sigmabot III if there are more than 4. A Commons file used on this page or its Wikidata item has been nominated for deletion [ edit ] The following Wikimedia Commons file used on this page or its Wikidata item has been nominated for deletion: Mercedes-Benz half-track and cars with bombers - 1940s poster.jpg Participate in the deletion discussion at the nomination page . — Community Tech bot ( talk ) 00:23, 5 January 2021 (UTC) [ reply ] Requested move 29 March 2024 [ edit ] The following is a closed discussion of a requested move . Please do not modify it. Subsequent comments should be made in a new section on the talk page. Editors desiring to contest the closing decision should consider a move review after discussing it on the closer's talk page. No further edits should be made to this discussion. The result of the move request was: Withdrawn. Per nominator's comment below. WP:RMEC allows the nominator to withdraw an RM if no other user supported a move. ( closed by non-admin page mover ) SilverLocust 💬 21:20, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Mercedes-Benz → Mercedes–Benz Mercedes–Benz – WP:DASH ― Justin ( ko a v f ) ❤ T ☮ C ☺ M ☯ 23:05, 29 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Oppose : WP:HYPHEN . SilverLocust 💬 02:50, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Or, if we are not limited to a single-word rationale, see MOS:ENBETWEEN . (" Generally, use a hyphen in compounded proper names of single entities. ") And note that this is overwhelmingly how the company writes its name, how its name is written in independent sources (when not shortened to "Mercedes"), and comparable to how other companies with hyphenated names like Baskin-Robbins , Anheuser-Busch , Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer , and Harley-Davidson are written. SilverLocust 💬 03:12, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Oppose: Mercedes-Benz is the name of a single company, it's not that Mercedes and Benz were ever independent companies. (It did result from the merger of two companies, but they were called Benz & Cie and Daimler-Motoren-Gesellschaft .) We have no policy on which the use of a hyphen an en dash could be justified, and it is never used in the wild. Gawaon ( talk ) 07:55, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] A hyphen is being used. I am suggesting an en dash . ― Justin ( ko a v f ) ❤ T ☮ C ☺ M ☯ 08:08, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Right, that's what I meant, of course. Brain's not working so well in the morning. Gawaon ( talk ) 10:40, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] I am right there with you. ― Justin ( ko a v f ) ❤ T ☮ C ☺ M ☯ 18:44, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Oppose: official website copy and paste any instance of their name, no en dash used. YBSOne ( talk ) 09:10, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Oppose per SilverLocust, MOS:ENBETWEEN , it is a proper name for one entity, not an article on the relationship of two. Dank Jae 15:29, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Withdrawn I was wrong. Thanks/sorry all. ― Justin ( ko a v f ) ❤ T ☮ C ☺ M ☯ 18:44, 30 March 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] The discussion above is closed. Please do not modify it. Subsequent comments should be made on the appropriate discussion page. No further edits should be made to this discussion. History section--Geography [ edit ] "At the time, it was a meeting place for the haute volée of France and Europe, especially in winter."  Um, *what* was a meeting place? I don't see mention of a particular location. Up until that point in the article, the only place referenced is Stuttgart, in the intro. Lovely and cultured as that city is, it's hardly a fancy winter resort! Roger.Lustig ( talk ) 17:37, 13 August 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Split Article Request: 5 February 2025 [ edit ] Seeing as the Benz automotive brand and the Mercedes-Benz AG and manufacturers and owns most of the cars in the brand are different entities with their own history, I was thinking that we could split the article into two independent articles titled as follows: Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz AG If agreed, I will do the split. Looking forward to everyone's thoughts! — grafi X al Talk 10:17, 5 February 2025 (UTC) [ reply ] Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Mercedes-Benz&oldid=1328742547 " Categories : Wikipedia articles that use British English B-Class level-5 vital articles Wikipedia level-5 vital articles in Society and social sciences B-Class vital articles in Society and social sciences B-Class Automobile articles Top-importance Automobile articles B-Class Germany articles Top-importance Germany articles WikiProject Germany articles B-Class company articles Top-importance company articles WikiProject Companies articles B-Class Brands articles Top-importance Brands articles WikiProject Brands articles Hidden category: All Wikipedia vital articles