https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Throttle_position_sensor

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Sensor device This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Throttle position sensor" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Throttle body showing throttle position sensor on the right Potentiometric type sensor, showing the multi-finger metal brush/rake... ...and the resistive strips. A throttle position sensor ( TPS ) is a sensor used to monitor the throttle body valve position for the ECU of an engine. The sensor is usually located on the butterfly spindle/shaft, so that it can directly monitor the position of the throttle. More advanced forms of the sensor are also used. For example, an extra "closed throttle position sensor" (CTPS) may be employed to indicate that the throttle is completely closed. 
Some engine control units (ECUs) also control the throttle position by electronic throttle control (ETC) or " drive by wire " systems, and if that is done, the position sensor is used in a feedback loop to enable that control. [ 1 ] Related to the TPS are accelerator pedal sensors, which often include a wide open throttle (WOT) sensor. The accelerator pedal sensors are used in electronic throttle control or " drive by wire " systems, and the most common use of a wide open throttle sensor is for the kick-down function on automatic transmissions . Modern day sensors are non contact type. These modern non contact TPS include Hall effect sensors , inductive sensors , magnetoresistive and others. In the potentiometric type sensors, a multi-finger metal brush/rake is in contact with a resistive strip, [ 2 ] while the butterfly valve is turned from the lower mechanical stop (minimum air position) to WOT, there is a change in the resistance and this change in resistance is given as the input to the ECU. Non contact type TPS work on the principle of Hall effect or inductive sensors, or magnetoresistive technologies, wherein generally the magnet or inductive loop is the dynamic part which is mounted on the butterfly valve throttle spindle/shaft gear and the sensor & signal processing circuit board is mounted within the ETC gear box cover and is stationary. When the magnet/inductive loop mounted on the spindle which is rotated from the lower mechanical stop to WOT, there is a change in the magnetic field for the sensor. The change in the magnetic field is sensed by the sensor and the voltage generated is given as the input to the ECU. Normally a two pole rare-earth magnet is used for the TPS due to their high Curie temperatures required in the under-hood vehicle environment. The magnet may be of diametrical type, ring type, rectangular or segment type. The magnet is defined to have a certain magnetic field that does not vary significantly with time or temperature. See also [ edit ] List of auto parts List of sensors Notes [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Throttle position sensors . ^ McKay, D., Nichols, G., and Schreurs, B., "Delphi Electronic Throttle Control Systems for Model Year 2000;Driver Features, System Security, and OEM Benefits. ETC for the Mass Market," SAE Technical Paper 2000-01-0556, 2000 "Archived copy" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-02-11 . Retrieved 2013-06-20 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: archived copy as title ( link ) ^ Garrick, R.D., Sensitivity of Contact Electronic Throttle Control Sensor to Control System Variation, Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Technical Paper, 2006-01-0763, April 2006. "Archived copy" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-10-19 . Retrieved 2013-06-19 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: archived copy as title ( link ) v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Throttle_position_sensor&oldid=1220636476 " Category : Engine sensors Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from July 2013 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is on Wikidata