https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69852554/arizona-increase-rural-speed-limits

VW Pics | Getty Images The RAPID Act aims to pilot the removal of posted speed limits on select rural interstate highways in Arizona. While there would be no maximum speed limit during daylight hours, there would be an 80-mph cap at night, and commercial vehicles are excluded. The limitless zones would only apply outside urban areas on roads with low crash rates and strong infrastructure. Most people who have driven across America's wide-open spaces have—at one point or another—likely encountered a stretch of road with no one around and wondered why they even needed to have a speed limit there. Well, a new legislative effort in Arizona seeks to codify those thoughts into law. Spearheaded by state representative Nick Kupper, the newly introduced bill is called the Reasonable and Prudent Interstate Driving (RAPID) Act . It's focused on eliminating speed restrictions in rural sections of the Grand Canyon State. The program will be piloted on a stretch of Interstate 8, according to Rep. Kupper, who said that additional roads would be chosen on engineering studies, safety records, and highway design standards. For Sale Near You See all results for used cars for sale near 85353 Paul Harris | Getty Images "Most drivers can tell the difference between a crowded city freeway and a wide-open stretch of rural interstate," Kupper said . "The RAPID Act accounts for that difference. It will let us raise speeds where it's safe, keep tough penalties for reckless driving, and update our laws to reflect how people actually use these roads." Text from the proposed bill indicates that these derestricted speed zones may have no posted maximum, at least during daylight hours; a definitive limit of 80 mph at night is core to the initial proposal. The bill would provide this power to the director of the Arizona Department of Transportation and allow them to "designate a segment of state highway as a derestricted speed zone where no maximum speed applies." Of course, this lack of maximum speed does not apply to commercial vehicles. The proposed highway requirements for derestricting speed limits include location outside an urbanized area with a population of 50,000 or more residents, a crash rate below the statewide average over the last five years, and existing infrastructure that meets or exceeds state standards. The bill also focuses on the strong need for correct signage; additionally, annual safety audits of derestricted segments, as well as driver education around passing, would be required as part of the pilot program. ERIC BARADAT | Getty Images Speed limits reaching 85 mph are not uncommon in western regions in the United States, where vast portions of its interstate systems are void of population. Representative Kupper pointed to Montana—which, famously, followed a similar "reasonable and prudent" guideline for rural highway speeds until 1999—in his justification for raising rural speed limits in Arizona, as a Montana Legislative Audit Division review found that even as average speeds rose after daytime limits were removed, crash and fatality rates per vehicle mile continued to fall and remained in line with neighboring states.  Instead, the study found that seatbelt usage and driver behavior are more critical in relation to fatality rates. "Montana showed that you can modernize speed laws without sacrificing safety. When rules are clear and focused on driver behavior, states can let safe highways operate as they were designed to operate," Kupper said. "Arizona should benefit from those lessons instead of sticking with limits that don't reflect reality." Related Stories North Dakota Is 9th State with 80-MPH Speed Limit Virginia May Write Car Speed Limiters into Law Northwest's Fast Drivers May Get Speed-Limited ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars From: Road & Track Emmet White Associate Editor A New York transplant hailing from the Pacific Northwest, Emmet White has a passion for anything that goes: cars, bicycles, planes, and motorcycles. After learning to ride at 17, Emmet worked in the motorcycle industry before joining Autoweek in 2022 and Road & Track in 2024. The woes of alternate side parking have kept his fleet moderate, with a 2014 Volkswagen Jetta GLI and a BMW 318i E30 street parked in his Queens community.