https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermostatic_radiator_valve

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Self-regulating valve to control hot water flow A thermostatic radiator valve on position 2 (15–17 °C) A sprung radiator valve with the wax-motor thermostatic controller removed. With the controller removed the valve is fully open so the radiator simply operates at full power; with the controller in place, as air temperature increases the wax motor depresses the protruding pin, closing the valve. A thermostatic radiator valve ( TRV ) is a self-regulating valve fitted to a hot-water heating system radiator to control the temperature of a room by changing the flow of hot water to the radiator. Functioning [ edit ] Cutaway model of a thermostatic radiator valve Conventional wax motor TRV [ edit ] The classic thermostatic radiator valve contains a plug, typically made of wax (forming a wax motor ), which expands or contracts with the surrounding temperature. This plug is connected to a pin which in turn is connected to a valve. The valve gradually closes as the temperature of the surrounding area increases, limiting the amount of hot water entering the radiator. This allows a maximum temperature to be set for each room. As the valve works by sensing the temperature of the air surrounding it, it is important to ensure that it is not covered by material (such as curtains). If the controller is removed from the valve, the valve opens fully. Interaction with room thermostats [ edit ] Thermostatic radiator valves should not be installed in the same room where a system-controlling air-temperature thermostat is installed. This is because in the case that the TRV set temperature is below the room thermostat set temperature, the TRV would shut the radiator off before the latter temperature is reached. The central heating boiler would continue to run in an attempt to reach the room thermostat set temperature, potentially heating the rest of the house to uncomfortably high levels if TRVs are not installed on the radiators in every room. If both TRV and thermostat set temperatures were set equally , unpredictable behaviour may occur with both devices attempting to control the room temperature. Therefore, in case of installing a TRV and an air-temperature–based boiler thermostat in the same room, the TRV should be set to a higher temperature than the room thermostat. [ citation needed ] Compared to manual control [ edit ] The replacement of a manual heating control with a conventional wax motor TRV has been estimated to save at least 280 kilograms (620 lb) of CO 2 per year (in 2011 for a British semi-detached house with three bedrooms and gas heating [ 1 ] ). They are also considerably cost-efficient, using heat only when needed, and can reduce heating bills by up to 17 percent a year. [ 2 ] Electronically controlled variants [ edit ] As of 2012, electronically controlled TRVs have become more common, and some of these are marketed as smart thermostats or even smart TRVs. They frequently use electronic temperature sensing and can often be programmed or remote-controlled so that individual radiators in a house can be programmed for different temperatures at different times of the day or automatically respond to occupancy and occupancy patterns. Such increased control allows reduction of energy use and CO 2 emissions. [ 3 ] Another possibility with such systems is that the temperature sensor can be placed more appropriately, away from the radiator, which may result in a more relevant temperature reading for controlling the radiator operating point . Some electronically controlled valves run on batteries which must be changed at regular intervals, while others can be connected to the power grid. Electronically controlled variants may also require additional setup, for example by connecting to a mobile phone application through a smart home hub using wireless protocols such as Zigbee or Z-Wave . Temperature scales [ edit ] Instead of marking the adjustment knobs with temperature in the Celsius scale, many manufacturers use a simpler scale, often from 1 to 5. As each TRV has some variations in their production, as the room size is unknown, as the level of insulation is unknown, and the radiator water temperature is unknown, it is impossible to predict exactly what temperature each setting will result in, but broadly manufacturers tend to manufacture under a set of assumptions that means 3 results in a "comfortable temperature". The table below gives some examples of conversion from proprietary scales to the Celsius scale. Position of TRV head Temperature Recommended use [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Danfoss [ 4 ] [ 6 ] Caleffi [ 7 ] ( °C ) ( °F ) ❄ ❄ 7 44.6 Frost protection 1 12 53.6 Cellar, stairs 1 13 55.4 14 15 59 Laundry room 2 16 60.8 Entrance hall 2 • 17 62.6 • • 18 64.4 Bedroom • • 19 66.2 Kitchen 3 3 20 68 Living room • • 21 69.8 • • 22 71.6 Bathroom 4 • 23 73.4 4 24 75.2 25 5 26 78.8 27 5 28 82.4 Physical connection standards [ edit ] There are several different standards for the screw connection between the thermostatic mechanism of the TRV and the valve  on the radiator. Some common examples are: [ 8 ] M28×1.5 valve (27.5 mm): Used by MMA, Herz, Orkli, COMAP, T+A, and others Caleffi valve Danfoss : Several variants, for example K valve (M30x1.5), RA valve (23 mm), RAV valve (34 mm), RAVL valve (26 mm) and RTD valve Giacomini valve See also [ edit ] Thermostatic mixing valve Wax thermostatic element Thermostat Notes and references [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Thermostatic radiator valves . ^ Energy Saving Trust (2011), Heating and hot water controls ^ "Thermostatic Radiator Valve: Why you should fit them in your home. - Plumbers in Horsham" . Archived from the original on 2014-03-24 . Retrieved 2014-03-24 . ^ Open-Source Thermostatic Radiator Valve (OpenTRV) ^ a b Danfoss . "User guide - radiator thermostats" (PDF) . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ Cantonal Energy and Environment Services of French-speaking Switzerland . "Bien utiliser la vanne thermostatique" (in French) . Retrieved 18 September 2016 . ^ Danfoss . "RA 2000 thermostatic sensors datasheet" (PDF) . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ Caleffi. "Thermostatic radiator valves" (PDF) . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ Danfoss Eco™ Programmable radiator thermostat for smartphone v t e Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning Fundamental concepts Air changes per hour (ACH) Bake-out Building envelope Convection Dilution Domestic energy consumption Enthalpy Fluid dynamics Gas compressor Heat pump and refrigeration cycle Heat transfer Humidity Infiltration Latent heat Noise control Outgassing Particulates Psychrometrics Sensible heat Stack effect Thermal comfort Thermal destratification Thermal mass Thermodynamics Vapour pressure of water Technology Absorption-compression heat pump Absorption refrigerator Air barrier Air conditioning Antifreeze Automobile air conditioning Autonomous building Building insulation materials Central heating Central solar heating Chilled beam Chilled water Constant air volume (CAV) Coolant Cross ventilation Dedicated outdoor air system (DOAS) Deep water source cooling Demand controlled ventilation (DCV) Displacement ventilation District cooling District heating Electric heating Energy recovery ventilation (ERV) Firestop Forced-air Forced-air gas Free cooling Heat recovery ventilation (HRV) Hybrid heat Hydronics Ice storage air conditioning Kitchen ventilation Mixed-mode ventilation Microgeneration Passive cooling Passive daytime radiative cooling Passive house Passive ventilation Radiant heating and cooling Radiant cooling Radiant heating Radon mitigation Refrigeration Renewable heat Room air distribution Solar air heat Solar combisystem Solar cooling Solar heating Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Underfloor air distribution Underfloor heating Vapor barrier Vapor-compression refrigeration (VCRS) Variable air volume (VAV) Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) Ventilation Water heat recycling Components Air conditioner inverter Air door Air filter Air handler Air ionizer Air-mixing plenum Air purifier Air source heat pump Attic fan Automatic balancing valve Back boiler Barrier pipe Blast damper Boiler Centrifugal fan Ceramic heater Chiller Condensate pump Condenser Condensing boiler Convection heater Compressor Cooling tower Damper Dehumidifier Duct Economizer Electrostatic precipitator Evaporative cooler Evaporator Exhaust hood Expansion tank Fan Fan coil unit Fan filter unit Fan heater Fire damper Fireplace Fireplace insert Freeze stat Flue Freon Fume hood Furnace Gas compressor Gas heater Gasoline heater Grease duct Grille Ground-coupled heat exchanger Ground source heat pump Heat exchanger Heat pipe Heat pump Heating film Heating system HEPA High efficiency glandless circulating pump High-pressure cut-off switch Humidifier Infrared heater Inverter compressor Kerosene heater Louver Mechanical room Oil heater Packaged terminal air conditioner Plenum space Pressurisation ductwork Process duct work Radiator Radiator reflector Recuperator Refrigerant Register Reversing valve Run-around coil Sail switch Scroll compressor Solar chimney Solar-assisted heat pump Space heater Smoke canopy Smoke damper Smoke exhaust ductwork Thermal expansion valve Thermal wheel Thermostatic radiator valve Trickle vent Trombe wall TurboSwing Turning vanes Ultra-low particulate air (ULPA) Whole-house fan Windcatcher Wood-burning stove Zone valve Measurement and control Air flow meter Aquastat BACnet Blower door Building automation Carbon dioxide sensor Clean air delivery rate (CADR) Control valve Gas detector Home energy monitor Humidistat HVAC control system Infrared thermometer Intelligent buildings LonWorks Minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) Normal temperature and pressure (NTP) OpenTherm Programmable communicating thermostat Programmable thermostat Psychrometrics Room temperature Smart thermostat Standard temperature and pressure (STP) Thermographic camera Thermostat Thermostatic radiator valve Professions, trades, and services Architectural acoustics Architectural engineering Architectural technologist Building services engineering Building information modeling (BIM) Deep energy retrofit Duct cleaning Duct leakage testing Environmental engineering Hydronic balancing Kitchen exhaust cleaning Mechanical engineering Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Mold growth, assessment, and remediation Refrigerant reclamation Testing, adjusting, balancing Industry organizations AHRI AMCA ASHRAE ASTM International BRE BSRIA CIBSE Institute of Refrigeration IIR LEED SMACNA UMC Health and safety Indoor air quality (IAQ) Passive smoking Sick building syndrome (SBS) Volatile organic compound (VOC) See also ASHRAE Handbook Building science Fireproofing Glossary of HVAC terms Warm Spaces World Refrigeration Day Template:Fire protection Template:Home automation Template:Solar energy Portal : Energy Authority control databases International GND National United States Israel Other Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Thermostatic_radiator_valve&oldid=1327744464 " Categories : Residential heating Plumbing Temperature control Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2022 Commons category link is on Wikidata