https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Porsche_Taycan

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is rated B-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to the following WikiProjects : Automobiles Mid‑importance Cars portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Automobiles , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of automobiles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Automobiles Wikipedia:WikiProject Automobiles Template:WikiProject Automobiles Automobile Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale . Environment : Green vehicle High‑importance Environment portal This environment-related article is part of the WikiProject Environment to improve Wikipedia's coverage of the environment . The aim is to write neutral and well-referenced articles on environment-related topics, as well as to ensure that environment articles are properly categorized . Read Wikipedia:Contributing FAQ and leave any messages at the project talk page . Environment Wikipedia:WikiProject Environment Template:WikiProject Environment Environment High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale . This article is supported by the Green vehicle task force . Germany Low‑importance Germany portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Germany , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Germany on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Germany Wikipedia:WikiProject Germany Template:WikiProject Germany Germany Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . Tip: Anchors are case-sensitive in most browsers. This article contains broken links to one or more target anchors : [[Lithium-ion battery#Shapes|pouch cell]]  The anchor (#Shapes) is no longer available because it was deleted by a user before. The anchors may have been removed, renamed, or are no longer valid. Please fix them by following the link above, checking the page history of the target pages, or updating the links. Remove this template after the problem is fixed | Report an error Requested move 9 June 2018 [ edit ] The following is a closed discussion of a requested move . Please do not modify it. Subsequent comments should be made in a new section on the talk page. Editors desiring to contest the closing decision should consider a move review . No further edits should be made to this section. The result of the move request was: no consensus to move the page to the proposed title at this time, per the discussion below. Dekimasu よ! 20:23, 15 June 2018 (UTC) [ reply ] Porsche Mission E → Porsche Taycan – the production version is to be called "Taycan", so I suggest the article, which covers all variations, be homologated to the production name, instead of the concept car name -- 67.70.33.54 ( talk ) 04:25, 9 June 2018 (UTC) [ reply ] Oppose – This article is about the prototype; moving its title to a future production version would be confusing and misleading for readers. Better create a new article for the Taycan when it's officially released. — JFG talk 15:30, 13 June 2018 (UTC) [ reply ] Strongly oppose - The later Taycan may be a different model from the prototype Mission E. Hansen Sebastian 13:19, 14 June 2018 (UTC) The above discussion is preserved as an archive of a requested move . Please do not modify it. Subsequent comments should be made in a new section on this talk page or in a move review . No further edits should be made to this section. Horsepower and Torque Figures in Model Specs Table [ edit ] I wonder if the maximum power and torque figures (available only with launch control 'overboost') should be the figures listed in the table?  I think it would make more sense to either list the power and torque available all the time, with the 'overboost' figures listed in the note; or alternatively, list both figures in the table with a slash (or similar) dividing the two categories in both the header and for each model.  Thirdly, it might be possible to squeeze in an extra column for the additional figures.  Anyone have thoughts? PVarjak ( talk ) 20:42, 24 February 2021 (UTC) [ reply ] I'm for adding an additional column. For example, one column captioned Power (continuous) and one captioned Power (overboost) . Addind a slash in each field would look a bit messy. Periwinklewrinkles ( talk ) 04:37, 7 March 2021 (UTC) [ reply ] " Electric Turbo " listed at Redirects for discussion [ edit ] The redirect Electric Turbo has been listed at redirects for discussion to determine whether its use and function meets the redirect guidelines . Readers of this page are welcome to comment on this redirect at Wikipedia:Redirects for discussion/Log/2024 June 6 § Electric Turbo until a consensus is reached.  — AP 499D25 (talk) 06:27, 6 June 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Porsche_Taycan&oldid=1227517854 " Categories : B-Class Automobile articles Mid-importance Automobile articles B-Class Environment articles High-importance Environment articles Green vehicle task force articles B-Class Germany articles Low-importance Germany articles WikiProject Germany articles Hidden category: Pages with broken anchors