https://www.caranddriver.com/compare

Compare Cars Side-by-Side with Ratings Backed by Testing Skip to Content SHOP NEW CARS SHOP USED CARS Research Cars Expert Reviews WHAT’S MY CAR WORTH? Expert-Tested Gear News + Stories Our car experts test over 300 vehicles a year. Read about how we test and evaluate vehicles here. Compare Cars Our team of experts created Car and Driver’s Comparison Tool to inform and simplify your car-buying research. Compare features, specs, prices, and performance between different trim levels on any vehicle—in addition to vehicles from different brands. We’ve been testing cars since 1956, and the data compiled here comes from our rigorous instrumented testing of several hundred vehicles each year. It covers some 113 data points per vehicle, from acceleration and fuel economy to cargo room and safety rating—and everything in between. We test so you can know the truth about the vehicles you’re interested in. Start your comparison by adding a vehicle here Add a Vehicle Add a Vehicle Add a Vehicle Add a Vehicle Add a Vehicle Popular Comparisons Honda Passport vs. Honda Pilot Honda CR-V vs. Honda HR-V Ford Bronco Sport vs. Ford Bronco Subaru Forester vs. Subaru Outback Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y Toyota Highlander vs. Honda Pilot Honda Accord vs. Honda Civic Lexus NX vs. Lexus RX Hyundai Palisade vs. Kia Telluride Acura MDX vs. Acura RDX Subaru Crosstrek vs. Subaru Outback Toyota Tacoma vs. Toyota Tundra Honda CR-V vs. Toyota RAV4 Honda Odyssey vs. Toyota Sienna Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model Y Mazda CX-5 vs. Mazda CX-50 Honda Accord vs. Toyota Camry Ford Maverick vs. Ford Ranger Porsche Cayenne vs. Porsche Macan Hyundai Santa Fe vs. Hyundai Tucson FAQs How does the Car Compare Tool work? The Car and Driver Compare Tool accesses vehicle data from a number of sources, including J.D.
Power’s ChromeData specifications database and fuel economy information from the EPA. You
will also see Car and Driver ’s rating and ranking for each vehicle, as well as any applicable
accolades such as a 10Best or Editors’ Choice award. Select the vehicles and trims you’d like to
compare and the tool does all the work, pulling in the relevant information and organizing it
side by side for your convenience. What’s the best way to compare cars side-by-side? You can compare up to five different vehicles, including different trims of the same model.
Once you’ve selected the vehicles you’re interested in comparing, you’ll see helpful specs such
as fuel economy, horsepower, acceleration, passenger space, towing capacity, and more. What information is available in the car compare tool? In addition to specifications such as passenger space, exterior dimensions, fuel economy, and
performance, the Compare Tool will also allow you to browse each vehicle’s popular features
and standard warranty offerings. You will also see links to relevant content, such as comparison
tests, segment ranking lists, and local inventory via the Car and Driver Car Buying Service. How does Car and Driver rate cars? Every vehicle that Car and Driver tests and reviews is given a rating on a one-to-10 scale based
on how good it is at its mission—the job it’s designed to do—compared to its direct
competitors. The rating for each model is prominently displayed on its own make-model page.