https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axle_track

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Distance between wheels on an axle Track (measured between center line of wheels). In automobiles (and other wheeled vehicles which have two wheels on an axle ), the axle track is the distance between the hub flanges on an axle. [ 1 ] Wheel track , track width or simply track refers to the distance between the centerline of two wheels on the same axle. In the case of an axle with dual wheels, the centerline of the dual wheel assembly is used for the wheel track specification. Axle and wheel track are commonly measured in millimetres or inches. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Common usage [ edit ] Despite their distinct definitions, axle track , (not to be frequently and incorrectly used interchangeably as wheel track and track width ), normally refers to the distance between the centerline of the wheels. For a vehicle with two axles, the term can be expressed as front track and rear track . For a vehicle with more than two axles, the axles are normally numbered for reference. [ 4 ] Offset wheel track [ edit ] In vehicles with offset wheels , wheel track is distinct from axle track because the centreline of the wheel is not flush with the hub flange. If wheels of a different offset are fitted, the wheel track changes but the axle track does not. [ 5 ] Railroad context [ edit ] The flange gauge – between the outer faces of a tram or railroad car's wheels on an axle (A) – is comparable to the axle track on other vehicles, In the railroad industry, the term "axle track" is not used; the same concept is called "flange gauge" or "wheel gauge". It is measured on a wheelset of a railroad car or tram from one wheel flange reference line to the reference line of the other wheel. It must be compatible with the " track gauge " – the distance between the facing edges of the running rails – of the network it runs on. [ 6 ] The maximum and minimum limits to the differences between the two gauges are usually 1 11 ⁄ 32 " and 3 ⁄ 8 " (9–35 mm). Model railroads [ edit ] Model railway elements such as track , rolling stock and locomotives are categorised by their wheel or track gauge. An HO scale or OO gauge model locomotive, for example, has a wheel gauge of 16.5mm. [ 7 ] See also [ edit ] Track gauge – determines the distance between the reference lines of the rails Wheelbase – the distance between the front and rear axles Wheelset References [ edit ] ^ "Car Handling Basics, How-To & Design Tips ~ FREE!" . Build Your Own Race Car! . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ "BMW M3 E46" . car.info . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ "C5 Corvette Wheelbase And Track Width" . carviewspecs.blogspot.com . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . [ dead link ] ^ "All Lined Up" . Edmunds . 15 November 2000 . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ "Weekend Tech: Alloy Wheels" . Classic Ford Magazine . 17 October 2020 . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . ^ MT/288 Wheelset Tread Standards & Gauging . British Railways Board. 13 December 1996. p. 24. ^ "What is OO gauge?" . World Of Railways . 7 June 2019 . Retrieved 19 February 2021 . v t e Powertrain Part of the Automobile series Automotive engine Diesel engine Electric Fuel cell Hybrid ( Plug-in hybrid ) Internal combustion engine Petrol engine Steam engine Transmission Automatic transmission Chain drive Direct-drive Clutch Constant-velocity joint Continuously variable transmission Coupling Differential Direct-shift gearbox Drive shaft Dual-clutch transmission Drive wheel Automated manual transmission Electrorheological clutch Epicyclic gearing Fluid coupling Friction drive Gearshift Giubo Hotchkiss drive Limited-slip differential Locking differential Manual transmission Manumatic Parking pawl Park-by-wire Preselector gearbox Semi-automatic transmission Shift-by-wire Torque converter Transaxle Transfer box Transmission control unit Universal joint Wheels and tires Wheel hub assembly Wheel Rim Alloy wheel Hubcap Tire Off-road Racing slick Radial Rain Run-flat Snow Spare Tubeless Hybrid Electric motor Hybrid vehicle drivetrain Electric generator Alternator Portal Category v t e Chassis control system Part of the Automobile series Suspension Anti-roll bar (sway bar) Axle Axle track Beam axle Camber angle Car handling Coil spring De Dion tube Double wishbone Hydrolastic ( Hydragas ) Hydropneumatic Independent suspension Leaf spring Live axle MacPherson strut Multi-link suspension Panhard rod Shock absorber Swing axle Toe angle Torsion bar Trailing arm Unsprung mass Watt's linkage Wheel alignment Wheelbase Steering Ackermann steering geometry Caster angle Kingpin Oversteer Power steering Rack and pinion Torque steering Understeer Brakes Automatic braking Anti-lock braking system Active rollover protection Brake bleeding Brake fade Brake fluid Brake lining Combined braking system Disc brake Drum brake Electric park brake Electronic brakeforce distribution Electronic stability control Engine braking Hydraulic brake Hydraulic fluid Inboard brake Parking brake Regenerative brake Vacuum servo Roadwheels Tires (Tyres) Alloy wheel Custom wheel Drive wheel Hubcap Outline of tires Rostyle wheel Spinner Whitewall tire Wire wheels Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Axle_track&oldid=1294807957 " Categories : Automotive engineering Track gauges Train wheels Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from November 2024 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata