https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crosshead

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Sliding pin joint in a slider-crank linkage, commonly used in engine pistons A crosshead as part of a reciprocating piston and slider-crank linkage mechanism. Cylindrical trunk guide Hudswell Clarke Nunlow; crosshead and two slide bars In mechanical engineering , a crosshead [ 1 ] is a mechanical joint used as part of the slider-crank linkages of long stroke reciprocating engines (either internal combustion or steam ) and reciprocating compressors [ 2 ] to eliminate sideways force on the piston . The crosshead also allows the connecting rod to move freely outside the cylinder. Because of the very small bore -to- stroke ratio on such engines, the connecting rod would hit the cylinder walls and block the engine from rotating if the piston were attached directly to the connecting rod as in a trunk engine . Therefore, the longitudinal dimension of the crosshead must be matched to the stroke of the engine. Overview [ edit ] On smaller engines, the connecting rod links the piston and the crankshaft directly, but this transmits sideways forces to the piston, since the crankpin (and thus the direction the force is applied) moves from side to side with the rotary motion of the crank. These transverse forces are tolerable in a relatively small engine. A larger engine's much greater forces would cause an intolerable degree of wear on the piston and cylinder , as well as increasing overall friction in the engine. A piston rod is attached to the piston and links it to the crosshead, which is a large casting sliding in crosshead guides (UK: slidebar ), allowing it only to move in the same direction as the piston travel. The crosshead also houses the gudgeon pin (US: wristpin ) on which the small end of the connecting rod pivots. In this way, the transverse forces are applied only to the crosshead and its bearings, not to the piston itself. Internal combustion engines [ edit ] Internal combustion engines using crossheads make for easier maintenance of the top end of the engine, since the pistons can be easily removed. The piston rod is mounted on the underside of the piston and connected to the crosshead by a single nut in double acting engines. The large two-stroke marine diesel engines are usually of this pattern. A crosshead is essential in a double-acting diesel engine (see also: H-class battleships: 12 MAN double-acting 2-stroke 9-cylinder diesels). Large diesels often have a plunger oil pump directly attached to the crosshead to supply oil under high pressure to the crosshead bearing. Steam engines [ edit ] In the case of the steam engine , a crosshead is essential if the engine is to be double acting - steam is applied to both sides of the piston, which requires a seal around the piston rod. An exception is the oscillating cylinder steam engine which can be double acting and yet has no crosshead. Early double-acting steam engines, such as those designed by James Watt , relied on a parallel motion linkage in part due to the difficulty of manufacturing guide rails. The cross head was made possible by the introduction of the planer which was suited for producing guides. [ 3 ] Locomotives [ edit ] Crossheads in a steam locomotive can be mounted either to one guide mounted above the crosshead or to two, one above and one below (called an alligator crosshead since it has two "jaws").  The former was preferred in many more modern locomotives. Marine engines [ edit ] In many 19th century marine steam engines , the crosshead was a strong metal bar attached to the piston rod and perpendicular to it, which was sometimes used to eliminate transverse forces, as in a steeple engine , and at other times used as a linkage—to side-rods in a side-lever engine or to connecting rods in a square engine. See also [ edit ] Crosshead piston [1] in which the lateral force of the piston is eliminated References [ edit ] ^ "The Two Stroke Crosshead Diesel Engine Crosshead Pin and Slippers" . Marinediesels.info. Archived from the original on 2018-10-14 . Retrieved 2013-07-22 . ^ "3.2.2. Piston (reciprocating) compressor" . Drucklufttechnik.de . Retrieved 2013-07-22 . ^ Rolt, L.T.C. (1965). A Short History of Machine Tools . Cambridge, MA, USA: The M.I.T. Press. p. 101. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Steam engine crossheads . Wikimedia Commons has media related to Crosshead pistons . v t e Steam engines Operating cycle Atmospheric Watt Cornish Compound Uniflow Valves Valves Slide D slide Piston Drop Corliss Poppet Sleeve Bash Valve gear Gab Stephenson link Joy Walschaerts Allan Baker Corliss Lentz Caprotti Gresley conjugated Southern Mechanisms Beam Cataract Centrifugal governor Connecting rod Crank Crankshaft Tusi couple hypocycloidal straight line mechanism Link chain Parallel motion Plate chain Rotative beam Sun and planet gear Watt's linkage Boilers Simple boilers Haystack Wagon Egg-ended Box Flued Cornish Lancashire Fire-tube boilers Locomotive Scotch Launch Water-tube boilers Babcock & Wilcox Field-tube Sentinel Stirling Thimble tube Three-drum Yarrow Boiler feed Feedwater heater Feedwater pump Injector Cylinder Locomotive Oscillating Single- and double-acting Condenser Condensing steam locomotive Jet Kirchweger Watt's separate "Pickle-pot" Surface Other Blowback Crosshead Cutoff Expansion valve Hydrolock Piston Reciprocating engine Return connecting rod engine Six-column beam engine Steeple engine Safety valve Steeple compound engine Stroke Working fluid History Precursors Savery Engine (1698) Newcomen engine Newcomen Memorial Engine (1725) Fairbottom Bobs (1760) Elsecar Engine (1795) Watt engine Beam Kinneil Engine (1768) Old Bess (1777) Chacewater Mine engine (1778) Smethwick Engine (1779) Resolution (1781) Rotative beam Soho Manufactory engine (1782) Bradley Works engine (1783) Whitbread Engine (1785) National Museum of Scotland engine (1786) Lap Engine (1788) High-pressure Richard Trevithick Puffing Devil (1801) London Steam Carriage (1803) "Coalbrookdale Locomotive" (1803) "Pen-y-Darren" locomotive (1804) Compound Woolf's compound engine (1803) Murray Murray's Hypocycloidal Engine (1805) Salamanca (1812) High-speed Porter-Allen (1862) Ljungström (1908) See also Glossary of steam locomotive components History of steam road vehicles Cugnot's fardier à vapeur (1769) Murdoch's model steam carriage (1784) Lean's Engine Reporter List of steam technology patents Modern steam Stationary steam engine Timeline of steam power Water-returning engine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Crosshead&oldid=1265098597 " Categories : Engine technology Bearings (mechanical) Locomotive parts Linkages (mechanical) Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata Commons category link is locally defined