https://www.wikihow.com/Experts

wikiHow Experts Our mission at wikiHow is to provide our readers with the most helpful instructions anywhere, on any topic. To do this, we work with industry-leading experts to ensure that our content is accurate, up to date, and backed by current research. Working closely in collaboration with our editorial team, wikiHow's experts write, edit, and review articles, answer reader questions, and even add personal advice. Apply to be an expert . Notable Reviewers Mark Cuban Entrepreneur & Venture Capitalist Mark Cuban is an American businessman and investor. He is the owner of the NBA's Dallas Mavericks, co-owner of 2929 Entertainment, chairman of AXS TV, and a primary investor on ABC's Shark Tank, a reality television show focused on inventions and investing. Bethany Hamilton Professional Surfer Bethany Hamilton is a professional surfer and author. In 2003, she had her left arm bitten off by a shark, but continued to surf. Since 2007, she has competed in numerous surfing competitions around the world. The 2011 feature film, Soul Surfer, is based on her experiences. B.J. Novak Actor, Writer & Entrepreneur B.J. Novak is a writer and actor best known for his work on NBC's Emmy Award winning comedy series "The Office" as an actor, writer, director, and executive producer. He is co-founder of The List App, and author of "The Book with No Pictures." B.J. graduated from Harvard University with a degree in English and Spanish literature in 2001. Peter Singer Philosopher & Animal Rights Activist Peter Singer is the Ira W. DeCamp Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University. Peter's books "The Most Good You Can Do" and "The Life You Can Save" are considered the foundational texts in effective altruism, a philosophy and social movement that uses evidence and reasoning to determine the most effective ways to benefit others. Peter founded Animals Australia, the country's largest and most effective animal organization, in 1980 and was voted one of Australia's ten most influential public intellectuals in 2006. He also received the Berggruen Prize for Philosophy and Culture in 2021. He has a BPhil from the University of Oxford and a Masters in Philosophy from the University of Melbourne. Shawn Achor Happiness Expert Shawn Achor is an American author, speaker, and founder. He spent twelve years of his illustrious career at Harvard University, where he established himself as one of the world’s leading experts on the connection between happiness and success. Achor founded GoodThink, Inc. in 2007. GoodThink is a company of researchers and speakers that offers positive psychology-related services to improve work performance. Achor’s “Happiness Advantage” training is one of the largest and most successful positive psychology corporate training programs in the world. David A. Payne, JD Host of "Somebody Somewhere," True Crime Podcast David A. Payne is the President and Executive Producer of RainStream Media, a media company who focuses on telling true crime stories with underlying themes of social justice. He has extensive experience in media and entertainment, having served as both General Counsel and a C-level executive for comapnies such as Turner Broadcasting, CNN, and USA Today. He is also a lawyer - he received his JD from the Duke University School of Law and is licensed to practice law in California. Medical Review Board Luba Lee, FNP-BC, MS Board-Certified Family Nurse Practitioner Luba Lee, FNP-BC is a Board-Certified Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) and educator in Tennessee with over a decade of clinical experience. Luba has certifications in Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS), Emergency Medicine, Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS), Team Building, and Critical Care Nursing. She received her Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) from the University of Tennessee in 2006. Laura Marusinec, MD Board Certified Pediatrician Dr. Marusinec is a board certified Pediatrician at the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, where she is on the Clinical Practice Council. She received her M.D. from the Medical College of Wisconsin School of Medicine in 1995 and completed her residency at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Pediatrics in 1998. She is a member of the American Medical Writers Association and the Society for Pediatric Urgent Care. Erik Kramer, DO, MPH Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine Dr. Erik Kramer is a Board-Certified Primary Care Physician at the University of Colorado. With over 15 years of experience, his clinical interests include obesity and weight management, diabetes care, and preventive care, as well as embracing a holistic approach to primary care. He received his Doctorate in Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) from the Touro University Nevada College of Osteopathic Medicine and completed his residency at Central Maine Medical Center. Dr. Kramer is a Diplomate of the American Board of Obesity Medicine. Sarah Gehrke, RN, MS Registered Nurse Sarah Gehrke is a Registered Nurse and Licensed Massage Therapist in Texas. Sarah has over 10 years of experience teaching and practicing phlebotomy and intravenous (IV) therapy using physical, psychological, and emotional support. She received her Massage Therapist License from the Amarillo Massage Therapy Institute in 2008 and a M.S. in Nursing from the University of Phoenix in 2013. Chris M. Matsko, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Chris M. Matsko is a retired physician based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. With over 25 years of medical research experience, Dr. Matsko was awarded the Pittsburgh Cornell University Leadership Award for Excellence. He holds a BS in Nutritional Science from Cornell University and an MD from the Temple University School of Medicine in 2007. Dr. Matsko earned a Research Writing Certification from the American Medical Writers Association (AMWA) in 2016 and a Medical Writing & Editing Certification from the University of Chicago in 2017. Mohiba Tareen, MD FAAD Board Certified Dermatologist Mohiba Tareen is a board certified Dermatologist and the founder of Tareen Dermatology located in Roseville, Maplewood and Faribault, Minnesota. Dr. Tareen completed medical school at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, where she was inducted into the prestigious Alpha Omega Alpha honor society. While a dermatology resident at Columbia University in New York City, she won the Conrad Stritzler award of the New York Dermatologic Society and was published in The New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Tareen then completed a procedural fellowship which focused on dermatologic surgery, laser, and cosmetic dermatology. Shari Forschen, NP, MA Family Nurse Practitioner Shari Forschen is a Registered Nurse at Sanford Health in North Dakota. Shari has worked in healthcare since 1996 and her expertise lies in acute care bedside nursing on a medical oncology floor. She received her degree from Medcenter one College of Nursing in 2003 and her Family Nurse Practitioner Masters from the University of North Dakota in 2014. Shari is a member of the American Nurses Association. Carrie Noriega, MD Board Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist Dr. Noriega is a Board Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist and medical writer in Colorado. She specializes in women’s health, rheumatology, pulmonology, infectious disease, and gastroenterology. She received her MD from the Creighton School of Medicine in Omaha, Nebraska and completed her residency at the University of Missouri - Kansas City in 2005. Lacy Windham, MD Board Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist Lacy Windham, MD, is a Board-Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist in Cleveland, Tennessee. Dr. Windham attended medical school at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center in Memphis. Her residency was completed at Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk, Virginia. She was the recipient of multiple awards during her residency training, including Most Outstanding Resident in Maternal Fetal Medicine, Most Outstanding Resident in Oncology, Most Outstanding Resident Overall, and Special Award in Minimally Invasive Surgery. Tu Anh Vu, DMD Board Certified Dentist Dr. Tu Anh Vu is a Board Certified Dentist and Owner of Tu's Dental, her private practice, in Brooklyn, New York. With over six years of clinical experience, Dr. Vu helps adults and kids of all ages get over their anxiety with dental phobia. Dr. Vu has conducted research related to finding the cure for Kaposi Sarcoma cancer and has presented her research at the Hinman Meeting in Memphis. She received her undergraduate degree from Bryn Mawr College and a DMD from the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine. Jonas DeMuro, MD Board Certified Critical Care Surgeon Dr. DeMuro is a board certified Pediatric Critical Care Surgeon in New York. He received his MD from Stony Brook University School of Medicine in 1996. He completed his fellowship in Surgical Critical Care at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System and was a previous American College of Surgeons (ACS) Fellow. Jennifer Boidy, RN Registered Nurse Jennifer Boidy is a Registered Nurse based in Baltimore, Maryland. In addition to her nursing career, she also works as a Healthcare Content Strategist & Writer, helping businesses and non-profits market their products and services to healthcare provider organizations, pharmaceutical companies, and other healthcare services vendors. Jennifer’s areas of expertise include pharmaceuticals & life sciences, health technology, medical devices & diagnostics, health insurance & managed care, and healthcare services & facilities. Her certification as a Registered Nurse was issued by the Maryland Board of Nursing. She graduated from the University of Maryland with a BS in Marketing and Finance. She received her Associate of Science in Nursing from Carroll Community College in 2012. Mark Ziats, MD, PhD Internal Medicine Physician Dr. Mark Ziats is an Internal Medicine Physician, Scientist, Entrepreneur, and the Medical Director of xBiotech. With over five years of experience, he specializes in biotechnology, genomics, and medical devices. He earned a Doctor of Medicine degree from Baylor College of Medicine, a Ph.D. in Genetics from the University of Cambridge, and a BS in Biochemistry and Chemistry from Clemson University. He also completed the INNoVATE Program in Biotechnology Entrepreneurship at The Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School. Dr. Ziats is board certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine. Alex Dimitriu, MD Sleep Medicine & Psychiatry Professional Alex Dimitriu, MD is the Owner of Menlo Park Psychiatry and Sleep Medicine, a clinic based in the San Francisco Bay Area with expertise in psychiatry, sleep, and transformational therapy. Alex earned his Doctor of Medicine from Stony Brook University in 2005 and graduated from the Stanford University School of Medicine's Sleep Medicine Residency Program in 2010. Professionally, Alex has dual board certification in psychiatry and sleep medicine. Troy A. Miles, MD Orthopedic Surgeon Dr. Miles is an Orthopedic Surgeon specializing in Adult Joint Reconstruction in California. He received his MD from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 2010, followed by a residency at the Oregon Health & Science University and fellowship at the University of California, Davis. He is a Diplomat of the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and is a member of the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons, American Orthopaedic Association, American Association of Orthopaedic Surgery, and the North Pacific Orthopaedic Society. Joel Warsh, MD Board Certified Pediatrician Dr. Joel Warsh is a board certified Pediatrician and the Owner & Founder of Integrative Pediatrics and Medicine in Los Angeles, California. With over a decade of experience, Dr. Warsh specializes in holistic and integrative medicine. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Kinesiology and Health Sciences, a Master’s degree in Epidemiology and Community Health, and a Doctor of Medicine (MD) from Thomas Jefferson Medical College, where he was elected president of the Jefferson Pediatric Society. Dr. Warsh then completed his Pediatric Residency at Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles (CHLA), where he received the George Donnell Society Research Fellow. Andrea Rudominer, MD, MPH Board Certified Pediatrician & Board Certified Integrative Medicine Doctor Dr. Andrea Rudominer is a board certified Pediatrician and board certified Integrative Medicine Doctor based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Dr. Rudominer has over 15 years of medical care experience and specializes in preventive health care, obesity, adolescent care, ADHD, and culturally competent care. Dr. Rudominer received her MD from the University of California, Davis, and completed a residency at the Lucile Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford University. Dr. Rudominer also has an MPH in Maternal Child Health from the University of California, Berkeley. She is a Member of the American Board of Pediatrics, a Fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics, a Member and Delegate of the California Medical Association, and a Member of the Santa Clara County Medical Association. Roy Nattiv, MD Board Certified Gastroenterologist Dr. Roy Nattiv is a Board-Certified Pediatric Gastroenterologist in Los Angeles, California. With over 20 years of experience he specializes in a broad range of pediatric gastrointestinal and nutritional illnesses such as constipation, diarrhea, reflux, food allergies, poor weight gain, SIBO, IBD, and IBS. He completed his pediatric residency at the Children’s Hospital at Montefiore, Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York, and his fellowship at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). While at UCSF, he was a California Institute of Regenerative Medicine (CIRM) fellowship trainee and was awarded the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (NASPGHAN) Fellow to Faculty Award in Pediatric IBD Research. Dr. Nattiv received his undergrad degree from the University of California, Berkeley, and his medical degree (MD) from the Sackler School of Medicine in Tel Aviv, Israel. Lydia Shedlofsky, DO Dermatologist Dr. Lydia Shedlofsky is a Resident Dermatologist who joined Affiliated Dermatology in July of 2019 after completing a traditional rotating internship at Larkin Community Hospital in Miami, Florida. She earned a Bachelor of Science in Biology at Guilford College in Greensboro, North Carolina. After graduation, she moved to Beira, Mozambique, and worked as a research assistant and intern at a free clinic. She completed a Post-Baccalaureate program and subsequently earned a Master's Degree in Medical Education and a Doctorate of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) from the Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine. Rebecca Levy-Gantt, MPT, DO Board Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist Dr. Rebecca Levy-Gantt is a board certified Obstetrician and Gynecologist running a private practice based in Napa, California. Dr. Levy-Gantt specializes in menopause, peri-menopause and hormonal management, including bio-Identical and compounded hormone treatments and alternative treatments. She is also a Nationally Certified Menopause Practitioner and is on the national listing of physicians who specialize in menopausal management. She received a Masters of Physical Therapy from Boston University and a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) from the New York College of Osteopathic Medicine. David Nazarian, MD Diplomate, American Board of Internal Medicine Dr. David Nazarian is a board certified Internal Medicine Physician and the Owner of My Concierge MD, a medical practice in Beverly Hills California, specializing in concierge medicine, executive health and integrative medicine. Dr. Nazarian specializes in comprehensive physical examinations, IV Vitamin therapies, hormone replacement therapy, weight loss, platelet rich plasma therapies. He has over 16 years of medical training and facilitation and is a Diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine. He completed his B.S. in Psychology and Biology from the University of California, Los Angeles, his M.D. from the Sackler School of Medicine, and a residency at Huntington Memorial Hospital, an affiliate of the University of Southern California. Margareth Pierre-Louis, MD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Margareth Pierre-Louis is a board certified Dermatologist and Dermatopathologist, Physician Entrepreneur, and the Founder of Twin Cities Dermatology Center and Equation Skin Care in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Twin Cities Dermatology Center is a comprehensive dermatology clinic treating patients of all ages through clinical dermatology, cosmetic dermatology, and telemedicine. Equation Skin Care was created to provide the best in evidence-based, natural skin care products. Dr. Pierre-Louis earned a BS in Biology and an MBA from Duke University, an MD from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, completed a residency in dermatology at the University of Minnesota, and completed a dermatopathology fellowship at Washington University in St Louis. Dr. Pierre-Louis is board certified in dermatology, cutaneous surgery, and dermatopathology by the American Boards of Dermatology and Pathology. Deb Schneider, LCSW, PPSC Licensed Clinical Social Worker Deb Schneider is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker in private practice in Oakland, CA, and a Program Manager for the Weiland Health Initiative at Stanford University. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in creating safe spaces, respectful of marginalized identities, at the high school and college levels. Deb holds a Bachelor’s degree in Sociology and Women's Studies from Clark University and a Master of Social Work (MSW) with Health Concentration from the University of California, Berkeley School of Social Welfare. Carlotta Butler, RN, MPH Registered Nurse Carlotta Butler is a Registered Nurse in Arizona. Carlotta is a member of the American Medical Writers Association. She received her Masters of Public Health from the Northern Illinois University in 2004 and her Masters in Nursing from the University of St. Francis in 2017. Sari Eitches, MBE, MD Integrative Internist Dr. Sari Eitches is an Integrative Internist who runs Tower Integrative Health and Wellness, based in Los Angeles, California. She specializes in plant-based nutrition, weight management, women's health, preventative medicine, and depression. She is a Diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine and the American Board of Integrative and Holistic Medicine. She received a BS from the University of California, Berkeley, an MD from SUNY Upstate Medical University, and an MBE from the University of Pennsylvania. She completed her residency at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York, NY and served as an attending internist at the University of Pennsylvania. Marc Kayem, MD Sleep Specialist Dr. Marc Kayem is a board certified Otolaryngologist and Facial Plastic Surgeon based in Beverly Hills, California. He practices and specializes in cosmetic services and sleep-related disorders. He received his Doctorate in Medicine from the University of Ottawa, is board certified by the American Board of Otolaryngology, and is a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Canada. Amy Chow Registered Dietitian Amy Chow is a Registered Dietitian and the Founder of BC Dieticians, a group of certified dieticians collaborating on an online directory to provide a central hub of qualified nutrition experts based in British Columbia (BC), Canada. With over ten years of experience, Amy has a special interest in pediatric nutrition, food allergy management, and eating disorder recovery. Amy holds a Bachelor’s degree in Nutritional Sciences from McGill University. She gained her clinical experiences at residential and outpatient eating disorder treatment programs, as well as at BC Children’s Hospital, before starting her own business. She has been featured on Find BC Dietitians, Dietitians of Canada, Food Allergy Canada, Recovery Care Collective, Parentology, Save on Foods, National Eating Disorder Information Centre (NEDIC), and Joytv. Pradeep Adatrow, DDS, MS Board Certified Dentist & Oral Surgeon Dr. Pradeep Adatrow is the only board certified Dentist, Periodontist, and Prosthodontist in the southern United States. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Adatrow specializes in dental implants, TMJ treatments, periodontal plastic surgery, surgical and non-surgical periodontics, bone regeneration, laser treatments, and soft tissue and gum graft procedures. He received a BS in Epidemiology and Biostatistics from the University of Alabama and earned his Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from the University of Tennessee College of Dentistry. Dr. Adatrow then completed a three-year postgraduate program in periodontics and implantology at Indiana University and went on to complete another three-year postdoctoral program in advanced prosthodontics from the University of Tennessee. He also serves as a full-time professor and the Director of Surgical Prosthodontics at the University of Tennessee. Dr. Adatrow received the Dean's Junior Faculty Award and the John Diggs Faculty Award, and he was inducted into the Deans Odontological Society. He is board certified by the American Board of Periodontology and is a Fellow of the prestigious International College of Dentistry – a feat that only 10,000 others worldwide can claim. Kaveri Karhade, MD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Kaveri Karhade is a board certified Laser, Medical, and Cosmetic Dermatologist in the San Francisco Bay Area. Her areas of expertise are acne and hair loss. She has advanced training in injectables, lasers, surgery, and other cosmetic treatments, and has published extensive research in medical journals. She holds a BS from Michigan State University and a Doctor of Medicine (MD) from the University of Michigan Medical School. She completed her internship in Internal Medicine at New York University School of Medicine and her Residency in Dermatology at Brown University School of Medicine. Dr. Karhade is a fellow of the American Academy of Dermatology and a member of the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery. Pouya Shafipour, MD, MS Board Certified Family Medicine Specialist Dr. Pouya Shafipour is a Family Medicine Specialist, Primary Care Physician, and a Weight Loss Specialist based in Santa Monica, California. Dr. Shafipour specializes in dietary, nutritional, behavioral, and exercise counseling to manage obesity and medical conditions related to excessive weight gain or loss. Dr. Shafipour received a BS in Molecular and Cell Biology from the University of California, Berkeley, an MS in Physiology and Biophysics from Georgetown University, and an MD from the Loma Linda University School of Medicine. He completed his internship in general surgery at UC Irvine and a residency in family medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, and became board certified in family medicine in 2008. Jonathan Frank, MD Sports Orthopedic Surgeon & Joint Preservation Specialist Dr. Jonathan Frank is an Orthopedic Surgeon based in Beverly Hills, California, specializing in sports medicine and joint preservation. Dr. Frank's practice focuses on minimally invasive, arthroscopic surgery of the knee, shoulder, hip, and elbow. Dr. Frank holds an MD from the University of California, Los Angeles School of Medicine.  He completed an orthopedic residency at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago and a fellowship in Orthopedic Sports Medicine and Hip Preservation at the Steadman Clinic in Vail, Colorado. He is a staff team physician for the US Ski and Snowboard Team. Dr. Frank is currently a scientific reviewer for top peer-reviewed scientific journals, and his research has been presented at regional, national, and international orthopedic conferences, winning several awards including the prestigious Mark Coventry and William A Grana awards. Jurdy Dugdale, RN Medical Review Board Jurdy Dugdale is a Registered Nurse in Florida. She received her Nursing License from the Florida Board of Nursing in 1989. Padam Bhatia, MD Board Certified Psychiatrist Dr. Padam Bhatia is a board certified Psychiatrist who runs Elevate Psychiatry, based in Miami, Florida. He specializes in treating patients with a combination of traditional medicine and evidence-based holistic therapies. He also specializes in electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS), compassionate use, and complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Dr. Bhatia is a diplomat of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology and a Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association (FAPA). He received an MD from Sidney Kimmel Medical College and has served as the chief resident in adult psychiatry at Zucker Hillside Hospital in New York. Alan O. Khadavi, MD, FACAAI Board Certified Allergist Dr. Alan O. Khadavi is a Board Certified Allergist and a Pediatric Allergy Specialist based in Los Angeles, California. He holds a BS in biochemistry from the State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook and an MD from the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn. Dr. Khadavi completed his pediatric residency at Schneider Children’s Hospital in New York, and then went on to complete his allergy and immunology fellowship and pediatric residency at Long Island College Hospital. He is board certified in adult and pediatric allergy/immunology. Dr. Khadavi is a Diplomate of the American Board of Allergy and Immunology, a Fellow of the American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (ACAAI), and a member of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI). Dr. Khadavi's honors include Castle Connolly’s list of Top Doctors 2013-2020, and Patient Choice Awards "Most Compassionate Doctor" in 2013 & 2014. Anthony Stark, EMR Emergency Medical Responder Anthony Stark is a certified EMR (Emergency Medical Responder) in British Columbia, Canada. With over 11 years of experience, he has worked as an industrial medic and provided urban and rural paramedic services. He currently works for Mountain View Safety Services and previously worked for the British Columbia Ambulance Service. Anthony has a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical, Electronics, and Communications Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology. He has completed the EMP Canada EMT Course and Swiftwater Awareness Training associated with the British Columbia Ambulance Service. Alina Lane, DDS Board Certified Dentist Dr. Alina Lane is a Dentist based in New York City. She currently practices at The Smilist Dentistry, where she has been since 2022. She has been a practicing dentist since 2014, and spent over 10 years running All Smiles Dentistry in New York prior to joining The Smilist. After completing a DDS at the University of Maryland, Dr. Lane completed a year-long clerkship in Implantology at the University of Maryland, where she focused on the advanced restoration of dental implants. She continued her advanced education by completing a General Practice Residency at Woodhull Medical Center, an affiliate of the NYU School of Medicine. She received the Woodhull Medical Center Resident of the Year 2012-2013. Ni-Cheng Liang, MD Board Certified Pulmonologist Dr. Ni-Cheng Liang is a board certified Pulmonologist and the Director of Pulmonary Integrative Medicine at Coastal Pulmonary Associates affiliated with the Scripps Health Network in San Diego, California. She also serves as a Voluntary Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of California San Diego School of Medicine while volunteering for the UCSD Medical Student-Run Free Clinic for uninsured patients. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Liang specializes in pulmonary and respiratory medical concerns, mindfulness teaching, physician wellness, and integrative medicine. Dr. Liang received her Doctor of Medicine (MD) from the University of Maryland School of Medicine. Dr. Liang was voted as a San Diego Top Doctor in 2017 and 2019. She was also awarded the 2019 American Lung Association San Diego Lung Health Provider of the Year. Eric Christensen, DPT Physical Therapist Eric Christensen is a Physical Therapist based in Chandler, Arizona. With over a decade of experience, Eric works in both orthopedic and neurological fields and specializes in custom orthotic prescription and casting, vestibular reprogramming, and manual therapy. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Exercise Science with a focus in Sports Medicine from Colorado State University and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from Regis University. In practice, Eric takes a developmental approach to rehabilitation utilizing the Selective Functional Movement Assessment. He uses functional movement patterning and manual therapy to return patients to prior levels of function. Joel Giffin, PT, DPT, CHT Physical Therapist Dr. Joel Giffin is a Doctor of Physical Therapy and the Founder of Flex Physical Therapy in New York, New York. With over 15 years of experience as a Certified Hand Therapist (CHT), Dr. Giffin treats the whole body and specializes in rehabilitation of the hand and upper extremities. He has treated Broadway theater performers backstage at shows such as The Lion King, Sleep No More, Tarzan, and Sister Act. Flex Physical Therapy also specializes in occupational and pelvic floor therapy. Dr. Giffin earned his Master’s degree in Physical Therapy with honors from Quinnipiac University and received his Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) degree with distinction from Simmons College. He is a member of the American Physical Therapy Association and the American Society of Hand Therapists. Theodore Leng, MD Board Certified Vitreoretinal Surgeon Dr. Leng is a board certified Ophthalmologist and Vitreoretinal Surgeon and an Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology at Stanford University. He completed his MD and Vitreoretinal Surgical Fellowship at Stanford University in 2010. Dr. Leng is a Fellow of the American Academy of Ophthalmology and the American College of Surgeons. He is also a member of the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, the Retina Society, the Macula Society, the Vit-Buckle Society, as well as the American Society of Retina Specialists. He received the Honor Award by the American Society of Retina Specialists in 2019. Shaune Wallace, OD Doctor of Optometry, Southern California College of Optometry Dr. Shaune Wallace is an Optometrist based in Elko, Nevada. He has over 17 years of optometry experience, and currently runs a practice in Elko called Focus Eye Care and Optical Lab. Before starting Focus in 2020, he spent over 10 years running optometry practices in Reno, Nevada, Tucson, Arizona, and Santa Clara, Utah. He graduated Magna Cum Laude with a Bachelors in Zoology from BYU. He is a member of the American Optometric Association, and received his Doctor of Optometry degree from the Southern California College of Optometry in 2006. Inge Hansen, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Inge Hansen, PsyD, is the Director of Well-Being at Stanford University and the Weiland Health Initiative. Dr. Hansen has professional interests in social justice and gender and sexual diversity. She earned her PsyD from the California School of Professional Psychology with specialized training in the area of gender and sexual identity. She is the co-author of The Ethical Sellout: Maintaining Your Integrity in the Age of Compromise. Robert Dhir, MD Board Certified Urologist & Urological Surgeon Dr. Robert Dhir is a board certified Urologist, Urological Surgeon, and the Founder of HTX Urology in Houston, Texas. With over 10 years of experience, Dr. Dhir’s expertise includes minimally-invasive treatments for enlarged prostate (UroLift), kidney stone disease, surgical management of urological cancers, and men’s health (erectile dysfunction, low testosterone, and infertility). His practice has been named a Center of Excellence for the UroLift procedure, and is a pioneer in non-surgical procedures for ED using his patented Wave Therapy. He earned his undergraduate and medical degrees from Georgetown University and was awarded honors in pre-medical studies, urology, orthopedics, and ophthalmology. Dr. Dhir served as chief resident during his urological surgical residency at University of Texas at Houston / MD Anderson Cancer Center in addition to completing his internship in general surgery. Dr. Dhir was voted Top Doctor in Urology for 2018 to 2019, one of the top three Best Rated Urologists in 2019 & 2020 for Houston Texas, and Texas Monthly has named him to the 2019 & 2020 Texas Super Doctors Rising Stars list. Tara Coleman Clinical Nutritionist Tara Coleman is a Clinical Nutritionist who has a private practice in San Diego, California. With over 15 years of experience, Tara specializes in sports nutrition, body confidence, and immune system health and offers personalized nutrition, corporate wellness, and online learning courses. She received a BS in Biology from James Madison University and spent six years in the pharmaceutical industry as an analytical chemist before founding her practice. Tara has been featured on NBC, CBS, Fox, ESPN, and Dr. Oz The Good Life as well as in Forbes, Cosmopolitan, Self, and Runner’s World. Jacqueline Hellyer Licensed Psychosexual Therapist Jacqueline Hellyer is a Licensed Psychosexual Therapist and the Founder of The Love Life Blog and The LoveLife Clinic. With over 20 years of experience, Jacqueline specializes in sex advice, sex tips, and relationship advice. In addition to being an accredited Psychosexual Therapist with the Society of Australian Sexologists (SAS), Jacqueline is also a Professional Certified Coach with the International Coach Federation (ICF). Jacqueline holds a BSc in Biochemistry and Human Sciences from The Australian National University, a Graduate Diploma in Applied Science from the University of Canberra, a BA in Languages and Literature from the University of New England (AU), an MSc in Sexual Health from The University of Sydney, and an MSc in Consciousness, Spirituality & Transpersonal Psychology from The Alef Trust. Her work and expertise have been featured in Australian Men’s Health, Cosmopolitan, Australian Women’s Health, Marie Claire, and 60 Minutes. Marsha Durkin, RN Registered Nurse Marsha Durkin is a Registered Nurse based in Waukegan, Illinois. With over 15 years of professional experience, she works both as a nurse and a Laboratory Information Specialist for Insight Hospital and Medical Center. Marsha received her Associate's Degree in Nursing from Olney Central College in 1987. Dale Prokupek, MD Board Certified Internist & Gastroenterologist Dale Prokupek, MD is a board-certified Internist and Gastroenterologist who runs a private practice based in Los Angeles, California. Dr. Prokupek is also a staff physician at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and an associate clinical professor of medicine at the Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Dr. Prokupek has over 30 years of medical experience and specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the liver, stomach, and colon, including chronic hepatitis C, colon cancer, hemorrhoids, anal condyloma, and digestive diseases related to chronic immune deficiency. He holds a BS in Zoology from the University of Wisconsin – Madison and an MD from the Medical College of Wisconsin. He completed an internal medicine residency at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and a gastroenterology fellowship at the UCLA Geffen School of Medicine. R. Sonia Batra, MD, MSc, MPH Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. R. Sonia Batra is a board certified Dermatologist and the Founder of Batra Dermatology based in Los Angeles, California. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Batra specializes in lasers, medical devices, patient and public medical education, and skin cancer research. She received her Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree in Public Health, and her Doctor of Medicine (MD) degrees from Harvard University. As a Rhodes Scholar, she earned a Master’s degree in Molecular Genetics at the University of Oxford. She completed her residency training in Dermatology at Stanford University. Dr. Batra has contributed and reviewed for the Journal of Dermatologic Surgery, the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, and JAMA Dermatology. She is also a co-host of CBS’ Emmy award-winning television show, The Doctors. Siddharth Tambar, MD Board Certified Rheumatologist Dr. Siddharth Tambar, MD is a board certified rheumatologist at Chicago Arthritis and Regenerative Medicine in Chicago, Illinois. With over 19 years of experience, Dr. Tambar specializes in Regenerative Medicine and Rheumatology, with a focus on platelet rich plasma and bone marrow derived stem cell treatments for arthritis, tendinitis, injuries, and back pain. Dr. Tambar holds a BA in Economics from State University of New York at Buffalo. He earned his MD from State University of New York at Syracuse. He completed his Internship, Residency in Internal Medicine, and his Rheumatology Fellowship at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Dr Tambar is board certified in both rheumatology and internal medicine. He also holds Musculoskeletal Ultrasound Diagnostic and Interventional certifications from the American College of Rheumatology and the American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine. Ran D. Anbar, MD, FAAP Pediatric Pulmonologist & Medical Counselor Dr. Ran D. Anbar is a pediatric medical counselor and is board certified in both pediatric pulmonology and general pediatrics, offering clinical hypnosis and counseling services at Center Point Medicine in La Jolla, California and Syracuse, New York. With over 30 years of medical training and practice, Dr. Anbar has also served as a professor of pediatrics and medicine and the Director of pediatric pulmonology at SUNY Upstate Medical University. Dr. Anbar holds a BS in Biology and Psychology from the University of California, San Diego and an MD from the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine. Dr. Anbar completed his pediatric residency and pediatric pulmonary fellowship training at the Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School and is also a past President, fellow and approved consultant of the American Society of Clinical Hypnosis. Damaris Vega, MD Board Certified Endocrinologist Dr. Damaris Vega is a board certified Endocrinologist. She graduated Magna Cum Laude from the Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico with a BS in General Science and subsequently earned an MD from the Ponce School of Medicine, Ponce, PR. During medical school, Dr. Vega served as president of the Alpha Omega Alpha Medical Honor Society and was selected as her school's representative for the American Association of Medical Colleges. She then completed a residency in Internal Medicine and a fellowship in Endocrinology, Diabetes, Mineral, and Metabolism at The University of Texas Southwestern Medical School. Dr. Vega has been recognized for excellent patient care multiple times by the National Committee for Quality Assurance and received the Patients' Choice Award in 2008, 2009, and 2015. She is a fellow of the American College of Clinical Endocrinologists and is an active member of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, the American Diabetes Association, and the Endocrine Society. Dr. Vega is also the founder and CEO of Houston Endocrinology Center as well as a principal investigator for multiple clinical trials at Juno Research, LLC. Heather Richmond, MD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Heather Richmond, MD is a board certified Dermatologist at Dermatology and Laser Surgery Center in Houston, Texas. With over nine years of experience, Dr. Richmond specializes in comprehensive dermatology including medical, surgical, and cosmetic procedures. She graduated cum laude from Yale University with a BA in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology. She earned her MD from the University of California, Irvine School of Medicine, where she was inducted into the Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society. She completed her Internal Medicine internship at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and her Dermatology residency at The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Dr. Richmond is a fellow of the American Academy of Dermatology and is a member of the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery, and the Texas and Houston Dermatological Societies. Michael Lewis, MD, MPH, MBA, FACPM, FACN Board Certified Brain Health Physician Michael D. Lewis, MD, MPH, MBA, FACPM, FACN, is an expert on nutritional interventions for brain health, particularly the prevention and rehabilitation of brain injury. In 2012 upon retiring as a Colonel after 31 years in the U.S. Army, he founded the nonprofit Brain Health Education and Research Institute. He is in private practice in Potomac, Maryland, and is the author of "When Brains Collide: What every athlete and parent should know about the prevention and treatment of concussions and head injuries." He is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and Tulane University School of Medicine. He completed post-graduate training at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Johns Hopkins University, and Walter Reed Army Institute of Research. Dr. Lewis is board certified and a Fellow of the American College of Preventive Medicine and American College of Nutrition. Victor Catania, MD Board Certified Family Medicine Physician Dr. Catania is a board certified Family Medicine Physician in Pennsylvania. He received his MD from the Medical University of the Americas in 2012 and completed his residency in Family Medicine at the Robert Packer Hospital. He is a member of the American Board of Family Medicine. Kirsten Thompson, MD Board Certified Psychiatrist Dr. Kirsten Thompson is a Board Certified Psychiatrist, Clinical Instructor at UCLA, and the Founder of Remedy Psychiatry. She specializes in helping patients with mental health conditions such as major depressive disorder, anxiety, ADHD, bipolar disorder, OCD, PTSD, and postpartum depression. Dr. Thompson holds a BS in Operations Research Industrial Engineering from Cornell University and an MD from The State University of New York, Downstate College of Medicine. Paul Friedman, MD Board Certified Dermatologist, American Board of Dermatology Paul Friedman, MD, is a Board-Certified Dermatologist, and the Director and Founder of the Dermatology & Laser Surgery Center in Houston, Texas. He has over 25 years of experience and specializes in Mohs micrographic surgery, dermatologic laser surgery, and cosmetic dermatology. Dr. Friedman is the current President of the American Society for Laser Medicine & Surgery and was named by Newsweek Magazine as one of the Best Dermatologists in America for Laser Treatments. His awards include the Husk Prize for his research in dermatologic surgery and the Young Investigator's Writing Competition Award of the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery. Dr. Friedman completed his dermatology residency at the New York University School of Medicine and received his medical degree with the highest honors from the University of Tennessee Health Science Center, College of Medicine. Adarsh Vijay Mudgil, MD Board Certified Dermatologist & Dermatopathologist Dr. Adarsh Vijay Mudgil is a board certified Dermatologist, Dermatopathologist, and the Owner of Mudgil Dermatology, a state-of-the-art dermatology practice based in New York, New York. As one of the few dermatologists in the area to achieve board certification in both dermatology and dermatopathology, Dr. Mudgil specializes in all aspects of medical, surgical, and cosmetic dermatology. He received his Bachelor's degree with Phi Beta Kappa honors from Emory University and earned his Doctor of Medicine (MD) with Alpha Omega Alpha honors from the Stony Brook University School of Medicine. In medical school, Dr. Mudgil was among a handful of students nationwide to receive a coveted Howard Hughes Medical Institute Fellowship and Scholarship. He then completed his residency in dermatology at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, where he served as chief resident. Additionally, Dr. Mudgil went on to complete a fellowship at the prestigious Ackerman Academy of Dermatopathology. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Dermatology, the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, and the American Society of Dermatopathology. Dr. Mudgil is also a member of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine teaching faculty. Payam Daneshrad, MD Board Certified Otolaryngologist Dr. Payam Daneshrad is a board certified Otolaryngologist, specializing in Facial Plastic Surgery and Rhinology, and the Owner and Director of Daneshrad Clinic in Los Angeles, California. With over 19 years of experience, Dr. Daneshrad specializes in adult and pediatric Otolaryngology-head and neck surgery, packing-less nasal surgery, minimally invasive sinus surgery, and snoring treatment. He also uses the newest surgical ENT techniques for tonsillectomy, adenoidectomy, thyroidectomy, and parathyroidectomy. Dr. Daneshrad graduated with a BS and the highest honors from the University of California, Berkeley. He earned his Doctor of Medicine (MD) from Tulane University School of Medicine, where he was accepted into the AOA, the medical honor's society, and the Tulane University School of Public Health. Dr. Daneshrad received his medical training from the University of Southern California. Dr. Daneshrad is the Otolaryngologist and Facial Plastic Surgeon for the Los Angeles Sparks and the athletic teams of Loyola Marymount University. Mindy Lu, LMHC, CN Certified Nutritionist & Licensed Counselor Mindy Lu is a Certified Nutritionist (CN), Licensed Mental Health Counselor (LMHC), and the Clinical Director of Sunrise Nutrition, a nutrition and therapy group practice in Seattle, Washington. Mindy specializes in eating disorders, body image concerns, and chronic dieting. She holds an MS in Nutrition and Clinical Health Psychology from Bastyr University. Mindy is a Licensed Counselor and Nutritionist and is known for her warm therapeutic style and culturally-inclusive lens in healing. She is a member of the Multicultural Counselors of Washington State and the Association for Size Diversity and Health. Miguel Cunha, DPM Board Certified Podiatrist Dr. Miguel Cunha is the founder of Gotham Footcare and is a podiatrist based in Manhattan, New York. Dr. Cunha is a foot and ankle surgeon with experience treating a wide array of foot and ankle conditions from minor problems to complex reconstructive foot and ankle surgery. Dr. Cunha received his DPM from the Temple University School of Podiatric Medicine and completed his residency as the Chief Resident at the Washington Hospital Center and Georgetown University where he specialized in lower extremity trauma, diabetic limb salvage, and reconstructive surgery of the foot and ankle. Dr. Cunha is a member of the American Podiatric Medical Association, the New York Podiatric Medical Association, the American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons, and is board certified in Podiatric Medicine. Kevin Stone, MD Board Certified Orthopaedic Surgeon Dr. Kevin Stone is an orthopaedic surgeon and the founder of The Stone Clinic, a leading orthopaedic surgery, sports medicine, and rehabilitation clinic in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 30 years of experience, Dr. Stone specializes in knee, shoulder, and ankle repair, using biologic reconstruction and joint replacement. He holds a BS in Biology from Harvard University and a Doctor of Medicine (MD) from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Stone completed his residency in Internal Medicine and Orthopaedic Surgery at Harvard University and in General Surgery at Stanford University. He then completed a fellowship in Orthopaedic Research and Surgery at the Hospital for Special Surgery and Tahoe Orthopaedics. He lectures around the world as an expert in cartilage and meniscal growth, replacement, and repair and holds over 40 U.S. patents on novel inventions to improve healthcare. Dr. Stone is a physician for Smuin Ballet and has served as a physician for the U.S. Ski Team, the U.S. Pro Ski Tour, the United States Olympic Training Center, and World Pro Ski Tour. Muhammad Khan, MD, MPH Board-Certified Gastroenterologist Dr. Muhammad Khan is a Gastroenterologist, with over 10 years of experience. Dr. Khan specializes in Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, and has a special focus in Therapeutic Endoscopy. He received his Bachelor’s, Master’s, and Doctorate of Medicine degrees from The University of Utah. Dr. Khan completed his residency training at Eastern Virginia Medical School, where he was inducted into the prestigious Alpha Omega Alpha honor society. He then completed his fellowship training at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford University. He is a Fellow of both the American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (NASPGHAN). Christy Irvine, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Christy Irvine is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the owner of her private practice out of Portland, Oregon. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in individual and couples therapy using various techniques including Emotionally Focused Therapy (EFT), Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), Interpersonal-Process Therapy, and Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT). Dr. Irvine holds a B.A. in Psychology from Whitman College and a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from The University of Connecticut. Cristian Macau, DDS Doctor of Dental Surgery Dr. Macau is a Doctor of Dental Surgery based in London, England. Dr. Macau is an oral surgeon, periodontist, and aesthetician at Favero Dental Clinic where he is known for his cosmetic dentistry and facial aesthetics work. He is actively involved in scientific research in the field of dentistry and he received his DDS from Carol Davila University of Medicine in 2015. Jennifer Butt, MD Board Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist Jennifer Butt, MD, is a board certified Obstetrician and Gynecologist operating her private practice, Upper East Side OB/GYN, in New York City, New York. She is affiliated with Lenox Hill Hospital. She earned a BA in Biological Studies from Rutgers University and an MD from Rutgers – Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. She then completed her residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital. Dr. Butt is board certified by the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology. She is a Fellow of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and a member of the American Medical Association. Catherine Cheung, DPM Board Certified Podiatrist Dr. Catherine Cheung is a double board-certified Podiatrist based in San Francisco, California. With over 20 years of experience, Dr. Cheung specializes in all aspects of foot and ankle care, including complex reconstruction, injury treatment, custom orthotics, bunion surgery, and all general foot and ankle issues. Dr. Cheung is affiliated with the Brown & Toland Physicians and the Sutter Medical Network. She received her BS from UCLA. She earned a DPM from the California College of Podiatric Medicine, completed her residency at the Encino Tarzana Medical Center, and completed a fellowship at the Kaiser Permanente San Francisco Medical Center. She is double board-certified by the American Board of Podiatric Surgery in Foot Surgery and Reconstructive/Ankle Surgery. Arvind Madan Nephrologist Arvind Madan is a Nephrologist based in Orlando, Florida. With over 23 years of experience, Arvind works as a Physician at Central FL Kidney Specialists and is the Principal Investigator of the research division there. Arvind is certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine, with a sub-specialty in Nephrology. He is an Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine at the University of Central Florida’s College of Medicine. He is also an Assistant Professor of Medicine at Orlando College of Osteopathic Medicine (OCOM). He received his MD from Maulana Azad Medical College at Delhi University and completed his residency at Nassau County Medical Center. David Schechter, MD Family Medicine Practitioner Dr. David Schechter is a physician in Culver City, California. With over 25 years of experience as a family and sports medicine physician, Dr. Schechter specializes in mind-body medicine, preventive medicine, and chronic pain. Dr. Schechter received his MD from New York University and is an attending physician at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He was named a Top Doctor by Los Angeles Magazine and Men's Health Magazine. He has also written several books, including The MindBody Workbook. Daniel Barrett, MD Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Dr. Daniel Barrett is a Board Certified Plastic Surgeon and the owner of Barrett Plastic Surgery based in Beverly Hills, California. With over six years of plastic surgery experience, Dr. Barrett specializes in aesthetic and reconstructive surgery of the face, nose and body. He has developed detailed scar management protocols and closure techniques to reduce the appearance of scars for his patients. Dr. Barrett obtained a BS from James Madison University and an MD along with an MS in Physiology and and an MHA (Masters of Health Administration) from the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond. Daniel Wozniczka, MD, MPH Internal Medicine Physician Dr. Wozniczka is an Internal Medicine Physician, who is focused on the intersection of medicine, economics, and policy. He has global healthcare experience in Sub Saharan Africa, Eastern Europe, and Southeast Asia. He serves currently as a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Public Health Service and a Medical Officer for the Epidemic Intelligence Service in the CDC. He completed his MD at Jagiellonian University in 2014, and also holds an MBA and Masters in Public Health from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Aanand Geria, MD Board-Certified Dermatologist Dr. Aanand Geria is a board certified dermatologist, a clinical instructor at Mt. Sinai, and the owner of Geria Dermatology based in Rutherford, New Jersey. Dr. Geria's work has been featured in Allure, The Zoe Report, NewBeauty, and Fashionista, and he has peer-reviewed work for the Journal of Drugs in Dermatology, Cutis, and Seminars in Cutaneous Medicine and Surgery. He holds a BS from the Penn State University and an MD from Rutgers New Jersey Medical School. Dr. Geria then finished an internship at Lehigh Valley Health Network and a dermatology residency at the Howard University College of Medicine. Joshua Ellenhorn, MD Board Certified General Surgeon & Surgical Oncologist Joshua Ellenhorn, MD, is a board certified surgeon with advanced training in the fields of surgical oncology, minimally invasive surgery, and robotic surgery. He runs a private practice at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California and is a nationally recognized leader in surgery, cancer research, and surgical education. Dr. Ellenhorn has trained more than 60 surgical oncologists and has spent over 18 years in practice at the City of Hope National Medical Center, where he was a professor and the chief of the Division of General and Oncologic Surgery. Dr. Ellenhorn performs the following surgical procedures: gallbladder surgery, hernia repair, colorectal cancer, skin cancer and melanoma, gastric cancer, and pancreatic cancer. He earned an MD from the Boston University School of Medicine, completed fellowships at the University of Chicago and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and finished his residency in surgery at the University of Cincinnati. Mayami Oyanagi Physical Therapist Mayami Oyanagi is a Physical Therapist and the owner of PT STOP Physical Therapy & Wellness, an individualized physical therapy practice in Los Angeles, California. With over 14 years of experience, Mayami specializes in orthopedic injuries, manual therapy, and sports medicine. She holds an MS in Physical Therapy from the University of Hartford. Mayami is also a board certified Orthopedic Clinical Specialist. She treats the root cause of her client’s problems by utilizing biomechanical assessments. Farah Khan, MD Board Certified Allergist & Immunologist Dr. Farah Khan is a Board Certified Allergist and Immunologist who graduated from fellowship in 2020. She specializes in asthma, food allergy, skin conditions, and rhinosinusitis care, and treats both adult and pediatric patients. Dr. Khan holds an MD from Ross University School of Medicine. She completed her Pediatric Residency training at INOVA Children's Hospital and her fellowship at Virginia Commonwealth University. Dr. Khan is an active member of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology as well as the Clinical Immunology Society. Shervin Eshaghian, MD Board Certified Cardiologist Dr. Shervin Eshaghian is a Board Certified cardiologist and the owner of Beverly Hills Cardiology based in the Los Angeles, California metro area. Dr. Eshaghian has over 13 years of cardiology experience, including serving on the medical staff at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He holds a BS in Psycho-Biology from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and an MD from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Furthermore, Dr. Eshaghian completed an internship, residency, and fellowship at Cedars Sinai Medical Center, where he was awarded the Leo Rigler Outstanding Academic Achievement Award and the Elliot Corday Fellow of the Year Award. Mark Co, DPM Podiatrist Dr. Mark Co is a Podiatrist who runs his own private practice in San Francisco, California. Dr. Co specializes in treatments for bunions, ingrown toenails, toenail fungus, warts, plantar fasciitis and other causes of foot pain. He also offers custom orthotics for the treatment and prevention of foot and ankle issues. Dr. Co completed a Master of Business Administration (MBA) at New York University and an MA in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Co also completed his DPM at the California School of Podiatric Medicine and a residency and internship at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Santa Clara, California. Dr. Co was awarded San Francisco's "Top 3 Podiatrists" in 2018, 2019, and 2020. Dr. Co is also a member of the CPMA (American Podiatric Medical Association). Mark Cannon, OD Board Certified Optometrist Dr. Mark Cannon is an Optometrist and Chief of Optometry at Cannon Eyecare, a family-owned optometry practice in Seattle, Washington. With over 10 years of experience, Dr. Cannon specializes in ocular disease, dry eye, glaucoma, eye infection, contact lens fitting, and pediatrics. Dr. Cannon holds a BS in Biology and Psychology from Indiana University. He received his Doctorate in Optometry from Indiana University School of Optometry, where he earned the Dean's Scholar award and participated in years of ophthalmic research. Dr. Cannon worked as an optometrist for four years before founding Cannon Eyecare, which offers full-scope medical optometry services. Dr. Cannon is a member of the American Optometric Association, King County Optometric Society, and the Optometric Physicians of Washington. Karen Litzy, PT, DPT Physical Therapist Dr. Karen Litzy, PT, DPT is a licensed physical therapist, international speaker, owner of Karen Litzy Physical Therapy, PLLC, and the host of the Healthy Wealthy & Smart podcast. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in a comprehensive approach to practicing physical therapy utilizing therapeutic exercises, manual therapy, pain education, and home exercise programs. Karen holds a Master of Science in Physical Therapy and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from Misericordia University. Karen is a member of the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) and is an official spokesperson for the APTA as a member of their media corps. She lives and works in New York City. Adrienne Youdim, MD Board Certified Internist Dr. Adrienne Youdim is a Board Certified Internist specializing in medical weight loss and nutrition and the founder and creator of Dehl Nutrition - a line of functional nutritional bars and supplements. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Youdim uses a holistic approach to nutrition that blends lifestyle changes and evidence-based medicine. Dr. Youdim holds a BA from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and an MD from the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). She completed her residency training and fellowship at Cedars-Sinai. Dr. Youdim holds multiple board certifications awarded by the American Board of Internal Medicine, the National Board of Physician Nutrition Specialists, and the American Board of Obesity Medicine. She is also a Fellow of the American College of Physicians. Dr. Youdim is an Associate Professor of Medicine at UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine and an Assistant Professor of Medicine at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. She has been featured on CBS News, Fox News, Dr. Oz, National Public Radio, W Magazine, and the Los Angeles Times. Raj Vuppalanchi, MD Academic Hepatologist Dr. Raj Vuppalanchi is an Academic Hepatologist, a Professor of Medicine at Indiana University School of Medicine, and the Director of Clinical Hepatology at IU Health. With over ten years of experience, Dr. Vuppalanchi runs a clinical practice and provides care to patients with various liver disorders at the University Hospital in Indianapolis. He completed dual fellowships in Clinical Pharmacology and Gastroenterology-Hepatology at Indiana University School of Medicine. Dr. Raj Vuppalanchi is board certified in Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology by the American Board of Internal Medicine and is a member of the American Association for Study of Liver Diseases and the American College of Gastroenterology. His patient-oriented research is dedicated to finding new treatments for various liver disorders as well as the use of diagnostic tests for non-invasive estimation of liver fibrosis (transient elastography) and portal hypertension (spleen stiffness). Katie Marks-Cogan, MD Board Certified Pediatric & Adult Allergist Dr. Katie Marks-Cogan is a board certified Pediatric & Adult Allergist at Clear Allergy based in Los Angeles, California. She is the Chief Allergist for Ready, Set, Food!, an infant dietary supplement designed to reduce the risk of childhood food allergies. She received her M.D. with honors from the University of Maryland. She then completed her residency in Internal Medicine at Northwestern University and fellowship in Allergy/Immunology at the University of Pennsylvania and CHOP. Aimee Eyvazzadeh, MD, MA OB/GYN & Fertility Specialist Aimee Eyvazzadeh is a Fertility Specialist and the Founder of The Egg Whisperer Show, a fertility care program focusing on fertility education based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Her work has been featured in magazines such as People, Forbes, and Marie Claire, and she has been featured on the Today Show, Good Morning America, and CNN. She earned an MD from the University of California, Los Angeles in 2001, completed an OB/GYN residency at Harvard Medical School in 2005, and finished a fellowship in Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility at University of Michigan, where she also completed an MPH. Kerry Assil, MD Board Certified Ophthalmologist Dr. Kerry Assil is a board certified Ophthalmologist and the Medical Director and CEO of Assil Eye Institute (AEI), an ophthalmology practice in Los Angeles, California. With over 25 years of experience and as one of the world's foremost experts in eye surgery, Dr. Assil has trained 14,000+ physicians in refractive and cataract surgery, performed 70,000+ eye surgeries, and authored over 100 textbooks, chapters, and articles on refractive and cataract surgery. He's served as the Distinguished Professor lecturer at Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Duke, Baylor, Tokyo, and UCLA among others. He has served on the advisory boards of 20+ ophthalmic device, pharmaceutical, and scientific companies and has appeared in the media as an authority on advances in vision-restoring surgeries and refractive surgery. Dr. Assil continues to make significant advances in his field with numerous inventions and introductions of state-of-the-art technologies. Joshua Grahlman, PT, DPT, FAFS Physical Therapist & Entrepreneur Dr. Joshua Grahlman, PT, DPT, FAFS, is the Founder and Chief Athlete Mechanic of Clutch PT + Performance, a private physical therapy clinic specializing in sports and orthopedics in New York City. With more than a decade of experience, Dr. Grahlman specializes in treating acute and chronic pain and injuries, sports performance optimization and post-operative rehabilitation. Dr. Grahlman earned his Doctorate of Physical Therapy (DPT) from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He is one of just a few DPTs in New York City recognized as a Fellow in Applied Functional Science through the Gray Institute for Functional Transformation (GIFT). He is certified in Active Release Technique and Spinal Manipulation and is a TRX Suspension Training Specialist. Dr. Grahlman has spent his career treating athletes of all levels, from Ironman Champions and Olympians to marathoner moms. He consults for Triathlete, Men’s Health, My Fitness Pal and CBS News. Asmi Berry, FAAD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Asmi Berry is a Board Certified Dermatologist and Beauty Biohacker based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 8 years of experience, Dr. Asmi specializes in general and cosmetic dermatology and has a passion for educating others. Dr. Berry has been published in several peer-reviewed journals, including the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology and Cutis. She has been featured in publications including Vogue, Forbes, GQ, Vox, and more. She holds a BS in Human Communication Sciences from Northwestern University and a DO from Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine. Mandolin S. Ziadie, MD Board Certified Pathologist Dr. Ziadie is a board certified Pathologist in South Florida. She specializes in renal, transplant, and pediatric Pathology and has over 12 years of experience. She earned her medical degree from the University of Miami School of Medicine in 2004 and completed her fellowship in Pediatric Pathology at Children’s Medical Center in 2010. Danielle Jacks, MD General Surgeon Danielle Jacks, MD, is a General Surgeon and Thoracic Surgeon based in Medford, OR. With over 9 years of experience, Danielle is an Asante Physician Partner and specializes in cardiothoracic surgery. She previously completed her surgical residency and a fellowship at the Ochsner Clinic Foundation in New Orleans, Louisiana. She received her MD from Oregon Health and Science University in 2016 and is certified by the American Board of Surgery. Zheni Stavre, MD Board Certified Rheumatologist Dr. Zheni Stavre is a board-certified Rheumatologist based in Worcester, Massachusetts. With over a decade of experience, Dr. Stavre specializes in Rheumatoid Arthritis, Spondyloarthritis/Psoriatic Arthritis, Osteoarthritis, and Gout. She holds a BS in Chemistry from Yale University and an MD in Internal Medicine and Rheumatology from The University of Massachusetts Medical School. Dr. Stavre is also an Assistant Professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. David Felsted, DO Comprehensive Ophthalmologist Dr. David Felsted is a Comprehensive Ophthalmologist based in Flagstaff, Arizona. He specializes in cataract and refractive surgery, micro-invasive glaucoma surgery, ophthalmic lasers, dry eye disease, diabetic retinopathy, and ocular trauma. Dr. Felsted holds a BS in Accounting from Brigham Young University and a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine from Midwestern University. He completed his Ophthalmic residency at The Medical College of Georgia. Eric Baron, DO Board Certified Neurologist Dr. Eric P. Baron is a staff ABPN (American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology) board certified Neurologist and a UCNS (United Council for Neurologic Subspecialties) Diplomat board certified in Headache Medicine at Cleveland Clinic Neurological Institute, Center for Neurological Restoration – Headache and Chronic Pain Medicine, in Cleveland, Ohio. With over 15 years of experience practicing medicine, he specializes in helping patients with headaches, migraines, and facial pain. Dr. Baron holds a BS in Biology from the University of Toledo and a DO from The Ohio University Heritage College of Osteopathic Medicine. Following his medical education, he completed his neurology residency and fellowship in headache medicine at Cleveland Clinic. Dr. Baron has authored publications in journals such as The Journal of Headache and Pain and was named one of “America’s Top Physicians." Ellen Turner Double Board-Certified Dermatologist Dr. Ellen Turner is a Double Board-Certified Dermatologist based in Dallas, Texas. She is board-certified in dermatology through the American Board of Physician Specialties and in functional medicine through the American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine. Dr. Turner is the founder of the Dermatology Office, with locations in Dallas and Irving, offering an array of dermatology services, including medical, cosmetic, surgical, and laser procedures. She is an Allergan Master Injector Emeritus, and she focuses on elective aesthetic procedures in her medical practice, including Silhouette InstaLift™, BOTOX®, Juvéderm®, Restylane®, Emface, Exion, and laser and light-based devices. Dr. Turner is a member of the American Academy of Dermatology, the Texas Dermatology Society, the Dallas Dermatology Society, the American Society of Dermatologic Surgery, and the Dallas County Medical Society. She is also a member of the medical staff at Presbyterian Hospital of Dallas . She recently served as the Dallas chairman of the board of APEX, a network of independent physician specialists devoted to improving the quality of medical care in Texas and beyond. Dr. Turner performed her medical school training at Texas Tech Health Sciences Center in Lubbock and her dermatology residency at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio. Lewis Chen, DDS, FICOI, FIADFE Licensed Dentist Dr. Lewis Chen is a licensed Dentist in both New York and New Jersey, specializing in providing high-quality oral care in the form of preventative care. He holds an Economics degree from New York University. Dr. Chen earned his doctorate at Columbia University College of Dental Medicine. He graduated top of his class with the highest honors and distinction and was nominated and inducted into the only renowned, national dental honor society, Omicron Kappa Upsilon (OKU). He then completed a comprehensive training program at the Bronx VA Medical Center and, shortly after, decided to pursue multiple practice ownership and management. Dr. Chen has acquired numerous accolades over the years, including New York Academy of Dentistry Exemplary Professional Conduct Award, Academy of General Dentistry Outstanding General Practitioner Award, American Academy of Implant Dentistry Award, and Pierre Fauchard Foundation Award. Find BC Dietitians Registered Dietitians Group Find BC Dietitians is a central hub of qualified nutrition experts in British Columbia, Canada with a mission to connect people to a registered dietitian best suited for their needs. BC Dietitians offer online consultations and provide evidence-based care on a wide range of nutrition matters such as diabetes, weight management, food allergies, eating disorders, and intuitive eating. Devin Fisher, CCC-SLP Speech Language Pathologist Devin Fisher is a Speech-Language Pathologist based in Las Vegas, Nevada. Devin specializes in speech and language therapy for individuals with aphasia, swallowing, voice, articulation, phonological social-pragmatic, motor speech, and fluency disorders. Furthermore, Devin treats cognitive-communication impairment, language delay, and Parkinson's Disease. He holds a BS and MS in Speech-Language Pathology from Fontbonne University. Devin also runs a related website and blog that offers speech-language therapy resources and information for clinicians and clients. Debra Minjarez, MS, MD Board Certified Reproductive Endocrinologist & Infertility Specialist Dr. Debra Minjarez is a board certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist, Fertility Specialist, and the Co-Medical Director at Spring Fertility, a Fertility Clinic based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She has previously spent 15 years as the Medical Director of Colorado Center for Reproductive Medicine (CCRM) and has also worked as the Director of the Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility at Kaiser Oakland. Throughout her professional life, she has earned awards such as the ACOG Ortho-McNeil Award, the Cecil H. and Ida Green Center for Reproductive Biology Sciences NIH Research Service Award, and the Society for Gynecologic Investigation President’s Presenter Award. Dr. Minjarez received her BS, MS, and MD from Stanford University, completed her residency at the University of Colorado, and completed her fellowship at the University of Texas Southwestern. Peter Gardner, MD Board Certified Gastroenterologist Peter W. Gardner, MD is a board certified physician who has practiced Gastroenterology and Hepatology for over 30 years. He specializes in diseases of the digestive system and liver. Dr. Gardner earned his Bachelor’s degree from the University of North Carolina and attended Georgetown Medical School. He completed his residency in Internal Medicine and then his fellowship in Gastroenterology at the University of Connecticut. He is a previous Chief of Gastroenterology at Stamford Hospital and remains on the staff. He is also on the staff of Greenwich Hospital and New York (Columbia) Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Gardner is an Approved Consultant in Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology with the American Board of Internal Medicine. Susannah Kerwin, ANP-BC, HNP Nurse Practitioner Susannah Kerwin is a board certified Adult Nurse Practitioner in New York, New York. With over 10 years of experience, Susannah specializes in adult primary care, holistic medicine, and women’s healthcare. Susannah holds a Bachelor’s degree from the University of San Francisco. She obtained her MSN from New York University’s (NYU) unique dual degree program combining integrative and allopathic disciplines. Prior to becoming a Nurse Practitioner, Susannah worked for more than ten years as a Registered Nurse in psychiatric and surgical settings. Susannah also serves as an adjunct faculty member for NYU. Allison Romero, PT, DPT Pelvic Health Specialist Dr. Allison Romero is a Pelvic Health Specialist, Physical Therapist, and the Owner of Reclaim Pelvic Therapy in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over a decade of experience, Allison specializes in comprehensive pelvic physical therapy treatments for pelvic floor dysfunction. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology and Exercise Science from Sonoma State University and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the University of Southern California. Allison is a board certified Physical Therapist in California and is a member of the American Physical Therapy Association-Section on Women’s Health and the International Pelvic Pain Society. Vlad Gendelman, MD Board Certified Orthopaedic Surgeon Dr. Vlad Gendelman, MD is an Orthopaedic Surgery Specialist in Los Angeles, California. With over 15 years of experience, he specializes in general orthopaedic surgery, including orthopaedic trauma, sports injuries, and joint replacements. Dr. Gendelman holds a BS in Biology from the University of Southern California and received his Doctorate from the University of California at Irvine. He then completed his residency in Orthopedic Surgery at SUNY Downstate. Dr. Gendelman is board certified with the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and is a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery. He is a member of the Los Angeles County Medical Association, the California Medical Association, California Orthopaedic Association, and the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery. Dr. Gendelman is a published author of multiple papers in the field of orthopaedic surgery. Edward S. Kwak, MD Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Edward S. Kwak, MD is a Dual Board Certified Plastic Surgeon and the Owner of ESKMD Facial Plastic Surgery based in New York City. After earning an MD from the Indiana University School of Medicine, Dr. Kwak completed an Otolaryngology (Head and Neck Surgery) residency at The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary and a fellowship in Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery under Dr. Russell Kridel at the University of Texas Medical Center in Houston. He is a member of the American Board of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery and a Diplomate of the American Board of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery. Furthermore, Dr. Kwak is board certified by the American Board of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery and the American Board of Otolaryngology / Head and Neck Surgery. Dr. Kwak has been awarded a Castle Connolly Regional Top Doctor, Newbeauty Top Beauty Doctor, New York Super Doctor, NY Top Doc, and an Expert Injector award. Monica Kieu, DO, FACS Board Certified Otolaryngologist Dr. Monica Kieu is a board certified Otolaryngologist and Specialist in Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery in Los Angeles, California. Dr. Kieu received a BS in Anthropology from the University of California, Riverside and earned her medical degree (DO), with honors, from Western University of Health Sciences in Pomona. She then completed her residency in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery at Michigan State University/Detroit Medical Center, where she served as chief resident. Dr. Kieu also completed a prestigious fellowship in Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at the University of Toronto. She is a member of the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, American Osteopathic Colleges of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery, American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, and the American Rhinologic Society. Dr. Kieu was recently named one of LA’s Top Docs by Los Angeles Magazine. Dale K. Mueller, MD Board Certified Cardiothoracic Surgeon Dr. Mueller is a Cardiothoracic Surgeon with the Cardiothoracic & Vascular Surgical Associates group in Jacksonville, Florida. Dr. Mueller has over 25 years of experience as a surgeon and he completed his fellowship at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in 1999. Dr. Mueller is a member of the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, Cook County Alumni Association, and Rush Surgical Society. He is board certified by the American Board of Surgeons. Corey Fish, MD Pediatrician & Chief Medical Officer, BraveCare Dr. Corey Fish is a Pediatrician based in Mount Vernon, Washington. He works as a Pediatrician at PeaceHealth St. Joseph Medical Center. Previously, he was the Chief Medical Officer at Brave Care, a pediatric healthcare company based in Portland, Oregon. Dr. Fish has over 15 years of experience in pediatric care and is a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Dr. Fish received a BS in Biology from Pacific Lutheran University in 2005, an MD from the University of Washington School of Medicine in 2009, and completed his Pediatric Residency at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in 2012. Tiffany Jumaily, MD Board Certified Pediatrician Dr. Tiffany Jumaily is a Board Certified Pediatrician and a fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics (FAAP) based in Los Angeles, California. With over a decade of experience in the medical field, Dr. Jumaily specializes in identifying the root cause of symptoms and presenting manifestations of disease. She holds a BA in Biology from Boston University and an MD from Boston University School of Medicine. Her dedication to combining evidence-based allopathic medicine with complementary and alternative therapies has led to her being featured and cited in various platforms including U.S. News & World Report, Forbes, and CBS Los Angeles. Scott Tobis, MD Board Certified Urologist Dr. Scott Tobis is a board certified Urologist. With more than seven years of experience, he specializes in treating patients for urologic conditions such as urologic cancers, prostate enlargement, vasectomy, kidney stones, frequent/urgent urination, erectile dysfunction, incontinence, and blood in the urine. Dr. Tobis holds a BS in Cellular and Developmental Biology from The University of California, Santa Barbara, and an MD from Dartmouth Medical School. He completed his internship in General Surgery and residency in Urologic Surgery at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry and his fellowship in Urologic Oncology and Robotic Surgery at The City of Hope National Medical Center. Dr. Tobis is a diplomat of the American Board of Urology. Chad Denman Sleep Medicine Provider Dr. Chad Denman is a Sleep Medicine Provider and is the Owner of Sleep Cycle Center in Austin, TX. With over ten years of experience and over 500 hours of Continuing Education in Sleep, he specializes in identifying and offering multiple treatment options to patients suffering from sleep issues. Additionally, he previously treated patients as a general dentist for over a decade! Dr. Denman completed his Doctor of Dental Surgery degree at Marquette University and earned an undergraduate degree in Exercise Physiology from Florida State University. He’s also a member of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM), the American Dental Association, and the Academy of General Dentistry. In addition, Dr. Chad is the Director of Doctor Success for the International Academy of Sleep (IAOS). There, he coaches other dentists on how they can become healthcare entrepreneurs and lectures nationwide on the importance of treating sleep apnea. Chloe Goldman Board-certified Dermatologist Dr. Chloe Goldman, MD is a Dermatologist based in Miami, Florida, who currently works at Baumann Cosmetic & Research Institute and Upper East Side Dermatology. She specializes in cosmetic, medical, and surgical dermatology. She earned a Doctor of Medicine from New York University and a BA in Biology, Neurobiology, and Behavior from Cornell University. She completed her dermatology training at University of Miami, where she was awarded the prestigious position of Chief Resident. She has won grants from the American Skin Foundation and the Melanoma Research Foundation. Sarah Dulaney Clinical Nurse Specialist Sarah Dulaney is a Clinical Nurse Specialist based in San Francisco, CA. With over 11 years of experience, Sarah specializes in geriatric nursing and dementia caregiving. She is currently the clinical director of the Care Ecosystem at the UCSF Memory and Aging Center, innovating care for older adults and persons with dementia. With a focus on person-centered outcomes, she also helped develop Care Ecosystem, a collaborative care model for dementia. Sarah is passionate about helping health systems and community organizations learn to implement dementia care navigation programs. She enjoys collaborating with multidisciplinary teams to develop, implement, and evaluate programs that aim to improve outcomes for people living with dementia and their families. She provides training and education on non-pharmacological strategies for behavior symptom management and caregiver support. Sarah has a BA from the University of Washington, and a Master’s in Gerontological Nursing from the UCSF School of Nursing. Neal Blitz, DPM, FACFAS Board Certified Podiatrist Dr. Neal Blitz is a Podiatrist and Foot & Ankle Surgeon who runs private practices in New York City and in Beverly Hills, California. Dr. Blitz is “The Bunion King®” and is the creator of the Bunionplasty® Procedure (plastic surgery for bunions) which has revolutionized bunion surgery. He has over 17 years of podiatric experience and specializes in minimally invasive foot and ankle surgery. Dr. Blitz received his DPM from the New York College of Podiatric Medicine, then completed a residency focused on Elective & Reconstructive Foot & Ankle Surgery at the Swedish Medical Center, and was awarded an AO Trauma fellowship in Dresden, Germany, focused on trauma and reconstructive techniques. He is board certified in Foot Surgery and Reconstructive Rearfoot & Ankle Surgery and is also a Diplomate of the American Board of Foot & Ankle Surgery and a fellow of the American College of Foot & Ankle Surgeons (FACFAS). Alina Goldenberg MD, MAS, FAAD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Alina Goldenberg is a Board Certified Dermatologist. She specializes in allergic contact and atopic dermatitis, patch testing, skin cancer screening and treatment, and medical and cosmetic dermatology. Dr. Goldenberg has published numerous peer-reviewed publications, textbook chapters and received grants and awards from organizations such as the National Institutes of Health and the American Skin Association. She holds a BA in Public Health from The University of California, Berkeley, a MAS in Clinical Research, and an MD from The University of California, San Diego. Indy Chabra, MD, PhD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Indy Chabra is a Board Certified Dermatologist and a Board Certified Mohs Micrographic Surgeon. He is the Founding Member of DMC Dermatology & Mohs based in Tucson, Arizona. With over 15 years of experience, he provides medical, surgical, and cosmetic dermatology care for adult and pediatric patients. Dr. Chabra earned a BS in Chemistry and Biological Sciences and an AB in Economics from Stanford University. He also received his MD and PhD in Microbiology and Genetics from Stony Brook University. He completed his Dermatology residency at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC), Pittsburgh. While at UPMC, Dr. Chabra received extensive training in complex Medical Dermatology, hair and nail conditions, Pediatric Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology, and Mohs Skin Cancer Surgery. Dr. Chabra is a Fellow of the American Society for Mohs Surgery, a Fellow of the American Academy of Dermatology, and a Fellow of the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery. Dr. Chabra also provides in-patient Dermatology consults at Tucson Medical Center. Kate Holcomb, MD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Kate Zibilich Holcomb is a Board Certified Dermatologist and the Founder of Pure Dermatology. She has over 15 years of experience in the field and specializes in cosmetic dermatology. Dr. Holcomb earned an MS in Public Health and Parasitology from The Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine and an MD from Tulane University School of Medicine. She also completed her residency in dermatology as Chief Resident at Saint Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Mount Sinai. Dr. Holcomb is a member of the American Academy of Dermatology, American Society of Dermatologic Surgeons, American Acne and Rosacea Society, Skin of Color Society, North American Contact Dermatitis Society, Louisiana Dermatological Society, and Women’s Dermatologic Society. Shayne Guffey, DMD Dentist Dr. Shayne Guffey, DMD is a Dentist and the owner of Mountain View Family Dental in Mesa, Arizona. With over 20 years of experience, Dr. Guffey specializes in family dentistry and cosmetic dentistry. He earned his Doctor of Dental Medicine (DDM) from Oregon Health & Science University. Additionally, he’s a professional member of the Academy of General Dentistry and the Dental Organization for Conscious Sedation. Alexander Knezevic, MD Ophthalmologist Dr. Alexander Knezevic is an Ophthalmologist at the Macy Eye Center in Los Angeles, California. He also is Medical Staff at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and is a Clinical Instructor of Ophthalmology at UCLA. He graduated with his Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Nebraska Medical Center, and he completed his Residency at the McGaw Medical Center of Northwestern University. Dr. Knezevic did his Fellowship at the University of California-Irvine, and he’s board certified by the American Board of Ophthalmology. Additionally, Healthgrades has awarded him their Honor Roll award. Ian Kroes, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Ian Kroes is a board-certified Family Medicine Physician and the Founder of Peninsula Doctor, a concierge medical practice in Menlo Park, California. With over 20 years of professional experience, Dr. Kroes specializes in Primary Care, which encompasses care for the entire family. In addition, Dr. Kroes has a deep interest in longevity care that focuses on ways to optimize patients' health. This includes attention to nutrition, fitness, and preventative testing. Dr. Kroes received a B.S. in Applied Physical from UC Berkeley and has earned a medical degree from Stanford University. Rajesh Khanna, MD Board Certified Ophthalmologist Dr. Rajesh Khanna is a board certified Ophthalmologist and the Founder of Khanna Vision Institute in Los Angeles, California. Dr. Khanna specializes in Lasik, cataract, and refractive eye surgery as well as treatments for presbyopia and keratoconus. Dr. Khanna completed his first Ophthalmology Residency in Mumbai and his second Ophthalmology Residency at SUNY Downstate in New York City. He went on to complete a fellowship training in corneal and refractive surgery from the University of Cincinnati in Ohio and a Neurophthalmology fellowship from Kingsbrook Jewish Hospital in New York City. Dr. Khanna is also a voluntary member of the UCLA faculty and is an Internationally recognized top Lasik, presbyopic implants in the eye (PIE), and Refractive vision care specialist. He is board certified by the American Board of Ophthalmology and is a certified Master of Surgery by the University of Bombay. Patricia Ladis PT, CBBA Licensed Physical Therapist Patricia Ladis PT, CBBA is a Licensed Physical Therapist and the Founder of WiseBody Physical Therapy out of New York, NY. With over 22 years of experience, Patricia specializes in providing a collaborative and holistic approach to pain, including nerve and chronic pain, injury prevention, and prenatal/postpartum wellness. She holds a BS in Physical Therapy from New York University. Patricia is a Certified Behavioral Breathing Analyst (CBBA) and holds certifications in Kinetic Control’s Performance Matrix Assessment Screen and the Integrative Systems Model. She co-founded First 1000 Days of Wellness, an educational platform for practitioners and the public to improve perinatal wellness. Patricia has been featured in Forbes, Vogue, and Men’s Health and has made television appearances on NBC and CBS. Dr. Abbie Maroño Body Language & Nonverbal Communication Expert Dr. Abbie Maroño is a behavioral and social scientist based in Orlando, FL. She is acknowledged by the U.S. Department of State as a top 1% expert in her field and has delivered specialized behavioral analysis training to representatives from 29 U.S. federal agencies, including the U.S. Secret Service, FBI, and Department of Homeland Security. Dr. Abbie is the creator of The Upper Hand, a proprietary framework for understanding human decision-making and influence. After delivering this training, the U.S. Secret Service recognized her expertise with an award for outstanding contribution to their forensic services. ​Dr Abbie earned her PhD in psychology from Lancaster University and became a Professor of Psychology at 23, now serving as Director of Education at Social-Engineer, LLC, specializing in behavior analysis. She contributes regularly to Forbes, Court TV, and Apple News and has been featured on BBC News, Fox News, WIRED, and Forbes Breaking News. Dr. Abbie is also a highly sought-after expert witness, retained for high-profile cases, including lawsuits involving A-list celebrities. Mohammad Dar, MD Board Certified Internist & Health Policy Director Dr. Mohammad Dar (MoDar) is a board certified Internist based in Boston, Massachusetts. With over seven years of experience in the medical field, he is skilled in epidemiology, healthcare, and health policy. Dr. Dar has had a myriad of experiences in healthcare, including working on the implementation of the Affordable Care Act at the White House Office of Health Reform, volunteering in rural Uganda with public health initiatives, and leading policy and on-the-ground COVID-19 operations during the pandemic. He has also worked on a number of innovative public health and insurance reform initiatives in Massachusetts. Dr. Dar received a BS in Cell and Molecular Biology and History from The University of Michigan and an MD from The University of Michigan Medical School. He completed his residency training at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital, from which he received the Golden Stethoscope Award. Jeremy Silverman, DMD Dentist Jeremy Silverman is a Dentist and Founder of Peace of Mind Dental Studio in Chandler, Arizona. With a decade of professional dental experience, he focuses his practice on incorporating mental well-being into the core of oral care. He also partakes in continuing education and stays up to date with the newest techniques, technology, and products. Dr. Silverman holds a BA in Psychobiology from the University of California at Los Angeles and a DMD from Midwestern University. He is a member of the American Dental Association, Arizona Dental Association, and Central Arizona Dental Society. Dr. Silverman is also Laser Certified by the World Clinical Laser Institute. Cindy Basinski, MD Board-Certified Urogynecologist Dr. Cindy Basinski is a Board-Certified Urogynecologist based in Newburgh, Indiana. She has been practicing both general and Urogynecologic surgery for over 24 years and specializes in minimally invasive surgical procedures. She is a Board Certified Subspecialist in Female Pelvic Medicine & Reconstructive Surgery from the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ABOG). She received her medical degree from the Indiana University School of Medicine. Adebola Dele-Michael, MD, FAAD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Adebola Dele-Michael is a Board Certified Dermatologist and the Owner of Radiant Skin Dermatology and Laser, PLLC in Manhattan, New York. With over 12 years of experience, she specializes in general and cosmetic dermatology, specifically, using lasers and energy devices in treating skin of color.She is an assistant professor of Dermatology at The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in Manhattan, NYC. Dr. Dele-Michael holds a BS in Biochemistry from Stony Brook University and an MD from The University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry. She completed her Dermatology Residency at Wayne State University School of Medicine, where she was also chief resident. Elisha Goldstein, Ph.D Clinical Psychologist Dr. Elisha Goldstein is a Clinical Psychologist, Co-Founder of The Center for Mindful Living and Psychotherapy based in Los Angeles, California, and creator of the global therapeutic coaching program, Uncover the Power Within. With over 20 years of professional experience, Dr. Goldstein has been at the forefront of integrating curriculum and training for therapists, educators, parents, and business professionals in the art and science of mindful living. He is the author of five best-selling books including Uncovering Happiness, The Now Effect, A Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Workbook, and MBSR Everyday. Dr. Goldstein received his Ph.D. from the Institute of Transpersonal Psychology and his Bachelor's degree in Psychology from the University of California, San Diego. Timothy Sherman, RN Registered Nurse Timothy Sherman is a Registered Nurse (RN) based in Austin, Texas and affiliated with St. David's HealthCare. With over seven years of nursing experience, Timothy specializes in working with adults in a general medical/surgical setting, chemotherapy, and with biotherapy administration. He has also instructed Essentials of Medical Terminology and Anatomy and Physiology for Medical Assistants at Austin Community College. He received his BS in Nursing from Wichita State University in 2012. Gary Hoffman, MD Colorectal Surgeon Dr. Gary Hoffman is a board certified Colorectal Surgeon and the Clinical Chief of the Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery at Cedars Sinai Medical Center. With over 35 years of experience, Dr. Hoffman has helped to advance laparoscopic and robotic surgery for the treatment of colon and rectal cancer. Dr. Hoffman holds a BS from the University of California, Irvine, and a Doctor of Medicine (MD) from Vanderbilt University.  He completed his surgical internship at Los Angeles County-USC Medical Center and his surgical residency at Louisiana State University-Charity Hospital of New Orleans Medical Center. Dr. Hoffman is an Attending Surgeon in the Division of General Surgery and Colon and Rectal Surgery at Cedars Sinai Medical Center. He is also an Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery at The David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles. Dr. Hoffman is a member of The American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons, The Southern California Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons, The American College of Surgeons, and The American Medical Association. Meera Subash, MD Board Certified Rheumatologist Dr. Meera Subash is a board certified Rheumatologist and Internist. She specializes in scaling up healthcare technology solutions for rheumatic and chronic disease management. Dr. Subash holds a BA in Human Biology from Stanford University and a Doctor of Medicine (MD) from Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. She completed a residency in Internal Medicine at The University of California, San Diego, where she served as Chief Resident in Quality and Patient Safety at The VA San Diego Healthcare System. Dr. Subash also completed a fellowship in Rheumatology at The University of California, San Francisco - School of Medicine. She is currently pursuing another fellowship in Clinical Informatics at The University of California, San Francisco - School of Medicine. Ronn Callada, RN, MS Nurse Practitioner Ronn Callada, ANP, RN is a Nurse Practitioner at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Ronn is also part of the adjunct faculty at New York University in nursing. He received his MS in Nursing from Stony Brook University School of Nursing in 2013. Diana Lee, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Diana Lee is a Surgical Retina Fellow. She received her MD from Georgetown University in 2015, did her fellowship at UCLA's Jules Stein Eye Institute, and completed her first residency at USC's Roski Eye Institute. Currently, she is a resident at the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services and a clinical fellow with Associates in Ophthalmology. Her research interests are diverse and include: cataract surgery, dry eye, thyroid eye disease, retinoblastoma and diabetic retinopathy. Lisa Grossman, RN, BSN, PHN, IBCLC, CLC, CLEC International Board Certified Lactation Consultant Lisa Grossman is a Lactation Consultant, Registered Nurse, and the Owner of South Bay Baby Care, a business focused on prenatal, breastfeeding, lactation, and CPR classes and services. Using years of experience working with mothers and babies, Lisa started South Bay Baby Care in 2018 with the goal of sharing her knowledge and expertise with expectant and new parents in the areas of newborn care, breastfeeding &amp; lactation, sleep routines, postpartum care, and CPR + First Aid. Lisa holds a BSN from Mount St. Mary's University, is a board certified Registered Nurse (BRN RN-BSN), an International board certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC), a Certified Lactation Counselor (ALPP), a Certified Lactation Educator Counselor (CLEC - UCSD), and a Member of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). Kara Hartl, MD, FACS Board Certified Ophthalmologist Dr. Kara Hartl is a board certified Ophthalmologist and the Founder and CEO of Mountain View Eye Center in Fairbanks, Alaska. Dr. Hartl is a blue light expert and specializes in studying the effects of natural and artificial light on people’s eyes and bodies. She received a BA in Biology from Harvard University and earned her Doctor of Medicine (MD) from The University of California-San Diego Medical School. Dr. Hartl also trained at the world-renowned Bascom Palmer Eye Institute. She is passionate about incorporating technology into the future of eye care and has started a public education initiative to inform everyday LED screen users about the effects and the easy ways to protect themselves while continuing to use their devices. Dr. Hartl also founded the international non-profit, Gift of Sight, which is dedicated to curing blindness across the globe. Julia Eze, NP-C Board Certified Family Nurse Practitioner Julia Eze, MSN, RN, NP-C, is a board-certified Family Nurse Practitioner based in Atlanta, Georgia. With over 10 years of experience, Julia is a health media expert and digital creator who leverages her nursing experience to create content around health equity, wellness, fitness, the advancement of nursing, and more. She has partnered with more than 30 global brands to provide comprehensive, educational information for her everyday viewers and is the owner of Absobility, a creative agency in the health and wellness space. Julia is also the founder of The Nurse Link, a social enterprise that connects current, future, and aspiring nurses for mentorship, networking, and empowerment through event curation and community building. Julia has been featured on NBC, CNN, Pop Sugar, nurse.org, and more. She has a bachelor’s in nursing from Georgia State University, a master’s in nursing from Mercer University, and is licensed by the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board. Nurse Shannan Product Reviewer Nurse Shannan is a Product Reviewer based in California. In addition to her career as a product reviewer, she is a wellness blogger and registered nurse. With over 10 years of experience reviewing products, Shannan is passionate about sharing new ideas, promotions, and innovative products with her followers. She has an online community of 65K followers across her social media accounts–in particular, a large portion of her community are fellow moms, who benefit from her recommendations and her wealth of knowledge as a registered nurse. Her blog, nurseshannan.com, shares daily product reviews, deals, and other insights with her readers. She also has an Amazon Storefront where she curates her favorite products in a helpful hub for her community to source. Christina Massaro Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist Christina Massaro is a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist based in New York City, NY. With over 8 years of experience, Christina specializes in cardiac and obstetric anesthesia. She is also the CEO and Co-Founder of Confident Care Academy, an online education community for critical care nurses and aspiring CRNAs. Christina has a Bachelor of Science in Nursing from Thomas Jefferson University and a Master of Science in Nursing from the University of Pennsylvania. She also has a Bachelor of Science in Psychology from Eastern University. Usha Rajagopal, MD Board-Certified Plastic Surgeon Usha Rajagopal, MD, is a board-certified plastic surgeon and the Medical Director of the San Francisco Plastic Surgery and Laser Center. With more than 20 years of experience, she focuses on cosmetic surgery of the face, breast, and body, and leads a practice known for cosmetic dermatology, medical skincare, and laser treatments. Dr. Rajagopal founded the V Suite, a women-led, privacy-focused vaginal rejuvenation center within her practice, with individualized care delivered by an all-female team. She also leads a new wellness center that focuses on regenerative treatments and longevity, offering services such as hyperbaric oxygen therapy, IV therapy, and red light therapy. She has served as a speaker at national conferences and as a trainer in advanced injectable and surgical techniques, and she has contributed recent articles to Advances in Cosmetic Surgery. Her work has appeared in outlets such as Glamour, W Magazine, New York Post, Forbes, HuffPost, NewBeauty, and Harper’s Bazaar. Dr. Rajagopal earned her MD from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, completed her Plastic Surgery Fellowship at the University of California, San Francisco, and is a member of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, The Aesthetic Society, and the California Society of Plastic Surgeons. Michael Warner, MD Medical Director of Critical Care Services Dr. Warner is a practicing Internal Medicine Physician and Medical Director in Toronto. In addition to his medical practice, he runs AdvisoryMD, a consultancy that bridges medicine and business and serves to connect other physicians with real estate space, personal finance education, and career coaching. He received his MD from Queen's University School of Medicine in 2004 and his MBA from the University of Toronto Rotman School of Management in 2010. Cara Piskai Orthodontist Dr. Cara Piskai, DMD is an Orthodontist and the Owner of Piskai Orthodontics in Voorhees, New Jersey. She has over five years of experience in orthodontics and dentofacial orthopedics. She completed a Doctor of Dental Medicine degree at the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine. She completed her residency and earned a Specialty Certificate in Orthodontics and a Master's degree in Oral Sciences at the University of Illinois-Chicago. Dr. Piskai is board-certified by the American Board of Orthodontics and is a member of the American Association of Orthodontists (AAO). She holds a position on the U.S. News & World Report Medical Review Board. Jason Piken Chiropractor, Certified Nutrition Specialist, & Health Coach Jason Piken is a Chiropractor, Certified Nutrition Specialist, Health Coach, and Owner of Innate Wellness Group. With over 25 years of experience, Dr. Piken specializes in providing a holistic, whole-body approach to nutrition and wellness. He earned a Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Northeast College of Health Sciences and is certified as a Practitioner of Applied Kinesiology by the International College of Applied Kinesiology. In addition to his nutrition certification, he holds a Therapeutic Lifestyle Certification and a Gonstead Certification. Nidhi Pai, DDS Cosmetic Dentist and Founder of ZERObrush Dr. Nidhi Pai is a board-certified cosmetic dentist based in Del Mar, CA. With over 25 years of experience, Dr. Nidhi has helped over 1,000 patients with their smile makeovers, emphasizing enhancing their natural beauty and creating holistic solutions that go beyond just fixing teeth. In addition to cosmetic dentistry, Dr. Nidhi is also an innovator and in 2022 she founded ZEROBrush, a revolutionary, custom oral care solution designed to maintain healthy smiles. Dr. Nidhi previously worked at Stanford School of Medicine’s craniofacial plastic surgery and taught at the University of Washington’s School of Dentistry. She has been featured on ABC 7 News, NBC, and as a Top Docs in Silicon Valley, Top 100 Dentists in America, Top Doctor Magazine, and Expertise's 2021 Best Dentist in Palo Alto. Joshua U. Klein, MD, FACOG Board Certified Reproductive Endocrinologist Dr. Joshua U. Klein is a board certified Reproductive Endocrinologist, an Assistant Clinical Professor at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, and the Co-Founder of Extend Fertility. He specializes in IVF, egg freezing, infertility, fertility preservation, artificial insemination, and treating polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). Dr. Klein has been published in numerous peer-reviewed academic journals such as Science, Fertility and Sterility, and Obstetrics and Gynecology. He holds a BA in English from Yeshiva University and an MD from Harvard Medical School. Luxme Hariharan, MD, MPH Board Certified Ophthalmologist Dr. Luxme Hariharan is a Board Certified Pediatric Ophthalmologist. She currently is a Pediatric Ophthalmologist at Nicklaus Children's Hospital in Miami, Florida. She specializes in pediatric ophthalmology and preventing childhood blindness. Dr. Hariharan has worked with global institutions including the World Health Organization, the American Academy of Ophthalmology, Orbis, and Sightlife. She holds a BS in Biology and Latin American, Caribbean & Iberian Studies from The University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Public Health (MPH) in International Health, Child Health, Epidemiology & Biostatistics from Johns Hopkins University, and an MD from The University of Wisconsin-Madison. She is a member and serves on several committees within the American Academy of Ophthalmology, The American Academy of Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus; and sits on the board of directors of Combat Blindness International. Daniela Castro Registered Nurse Daniela Castro is a Registered Nurse based in Denver, Colorado. She works at Presbyterian/St. Luke's Medical Center in Denver as a Nurse in the Emergency Department. She specializes in Emergency Care, and also has experience with Senior Living Care. Prior to nursing at St. Luke’s, she worked as a Patient Caregiver at Lincoln Meadows Senior Living. She received her nursing degree from Metropolitan State University of Denver. She received a BA in International Business & Marketing from Oklahoma State University. Ken Miyazato, DDS Doctor of Dental Surgery Dr. Miyazato is a Dentist at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center in the San Francisco Bay Area. He received his DDS from the University of Pacific in 2013 and completed his residency at the Lutheran Medical Center in 2014. Joseph Whitehouse, MA, DDS Board Certified Dentist Dr. Joseph Whitehouse is a retired Board-Certified Dentist and the Former President of the World Congress on Minimally Invasive Dentistry (WCMID). Based in Castro Valley, California, Dr. Whitehouse was a dentist for 47 years. He has held fellowships with the International Congress of Oral Implantology and with the WCMID. Published over 20 times in medical journals, Dr. Whitehouse's research focused on mitigating fear and apprehension for patients associated with dental care. Dr. Whitehouse earned a DDS from the University of Iowa in 1970. He also earned an MA in Counseling Psychology from California State University Hayward in 1988. Randal Silver, DMD Sleep Provider Dr. Randal Silver is a Sleep Provider based in Independence, Missouri. With over 20 years of academic and professional experience, Dr. Silver serves his community by providing much-needed treatment for people who are suffering from sleep-disordered breathing and sleep apnea treatment. Dr. Silver has completed over 400 hours of continuing education courses in dental sleep medicine and has earned his diplomate status with the American Sleep and Breathing Academy. He is also currently enrolled in the Diplomate program through the American Academy of Dental Sleep Medicine and has achieved their first level of mastery earning him the status of a qualified dental sleep medicine provider. He is a member of the International Academy of Sleep. He received his degree in dentistry from Nova Southeastern University in 2004 and spent an additional year of study in Advanced Education in General Dentistry while serving in the United States Air Force. Joseph Krajekian, DMD Board Certified Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeon Dr. Krajekian is a board certified Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. He received his DMD from Tufts University School of Dental Medicine in 2002. After obtaining his DMD, Dr. Krajekian went on to obtain his MD from Drexel College of Medicine. Ankush Bansal, MD Board Certified Internal Medicine Physician Dr. Bansal is a board certified Internal Medicine Physician in Florida. He received his medical degree from Creighton University School of Medicine and completed his residency in internal medicine at Christiana Care Health Services in 2007. He is licensed in 19 states and is a fellow of the American College of Physicians and senior fellow of the Society of Hospital Medicine. Ricardo Correa, MD Board Certified Endocrinologist Dr. Correa is a board certified Endocrinologist. Dr. Correa is the Program Director of the Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism Fellowship at the University of Arizona College of Medicine and was a previous Assistant Professor of Medicine at Brown University. He completed his MD at the University of Panama and completed an internal medicine residency at the Jackson Memorial Hospital - University of Miami. He has been voted one of the 40 Under 40 Leaders in Health by the National Minority Quality Forum in 2019. Robert Borer, DC Doctor of Chiropractic Medicine Dr. Borer is a Chiropractor in Michigan, where he operates a family-owned chiropractic business with his wife, Dr. Sherri Borer. He received his Doctorate of Chiropractic Medicine from Palmer College in Iowa in 1999. His practice was a winner of the 2015 Patients' Choice Awards in Saline, Michigan. Stuart Rammell, DO Board Certified Interventional Pain Specialist Dr. Stuart Rammell is a board certified Interventional Pain Specialist. He specializes in helping patients reduce pain and improve bodily function through spine and peripheral injections, radiofrequency ablation, and spinal cord stimulation. Dr. Rammell holds a BS in Exercise Science from Brigham Young University and a DO from Midwestern University. He completed his fellowship and residency in interventional pain medicine and anesthesiology at Loma Linda University. Annette Lee, MD Board Certified Reproductive Endocrinologist Dr. Lee is a Reproductive Endocrinologist based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She has over 27 years of experience in private practice and is double board certified in Obstetrics & Gynecology and Reproductive Endocrinology & Infertility. She specializes in infertility, in vitro fertilization, polycystic ovarian syndrome, third party reproduction, and hormonal disorders. She currently works at Innovation Fertility, and has been a consultant at Guidepoint since 2019. She was previously Medical Director at RADfertility in Newark, Delaware. She received Castle Connolly’s Regional Top Doctor Award for ten years from 2014-2024, Vitals.com Patient Choice Award for five years, and Philadelphia Magazine’s Top Doc from 2017-2024 as well. She completed her medical degree at the Drexel University School of Medicine. Scott Mosser, MD Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Dr. Scott Mosser is a board certified Plastic Surgeon based in San Francisco, California. Dr. Mosser is the Founder of the Gender Confirmation Center, a clinic dedicated exclusively to transgender surgeries. He received his MD from Baylor University, completed his residency in Plastic Surgery at Case Western Reserve University, and finished his fellowship in Aesthetic Surgery under Dr. John Q. Owsley, MD. He is a cofounder of the American Society of Gender Surgeons, a member of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS), is a member of WPATH (World Professional Association of Transgender Health) and the United States Professional Association of Transgender Health (USPATH). JoAnna Nguyen, MD Board Certified Plastic Surgeon & Reconstructive Surgeon Dr. Joanna Nguyen is a Board-Certified Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeon based in Los Angeles, California. Dr. Nguyen holds dual degrees in Psychology and Biology with a Specialization in Neuroscience from Boston University and completed her medical training at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. She then went on to complete comprehensive training in plastic surgery at the University of Southern California. Dr. Nguyen is a practicing plastic surgeon in Los Angeles, California and specializes in eyelid surgery, labiaplasty and breast augmentation. She is a diplomat of the American Board of Plastic Surgery. Carmen W. Landrau, MD Board Certified Cardiologist Dr. Landrau is a board certified Cardiologist at Memorial Hermann Hospital in Texas and a public speaker on heart health. She completed her fellowship in Cardiology at the University of Texas Medical Center in Houston in 2009. Her work has been featured by the American Heart Association, St. Jude Medical, and Univision. Joshua Batt, DO Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine Dr. Batt is an Emergency Medicine Physician at Riverside Community Hospital in California. He received his D.O. from the Touro University Nevada College of Osteopathic Medicine in 2012. He is a member of the American Osteopathic Association (AOA) and has over 5 years of emergency medicine experience. Thomas Wright, MD Board Certified Internist & Phlebologist Dr. Wright is board certified in Internal Medicine and Phlebology in Missouri with over 25 years of experience. He is one of the first 200 surgeons in the United States to become a diplomat by the American Board of Venous and Lymphatic Medicine. He completed his MD at the University of Missouri and his residency at the University of Alabama Birmingham in 1995. He is a Fellow of the American College of Phlebology and the American College of Physicians. He is a member of the American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery, American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery, and the American Medical Association. John Thoppil, MD Board Certified Obstetrician & Gynecologist Dr. Thoppil is a board certified obstetrician and gynecologist based in Austin, Texas. He leads River Place OB/GYN in Austin and has been voted the Top OB/GYN by Austin Monthly for four years in a row. Dr. Thoppil received his BS from Texas A&M University and his MD from the Baylor College of Medicine. Shaun Berger, MD Board Certified Pediatrician Dr. Shaun Berger is a board certified Pediatrician based in the San Diego, California metro area. Dr. Berger provides comprehensive primary care for newborns, children, and adolescents, focusing on preventive medicine. Dr. Berger earned a BA in Psychology from the University of California, San Diego and an MD from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Dr. Berger then completed a residency at the UCSF/Fresno Community Medical Centers/Valley Children’s Hospital where he was elected Chief Resident. He has been awarded the UCSF Foundation Award and is a Fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Paul Ursell, MD Ophthalmologist Dr. Paul Ursell is an Ophthalmologist and Cataract Surgeon in the United Kingdom. He has performed over 7,000 cataract operations over the course of his career. He has published over 20 peer reviewed papers on cataract surgery. Dr. Ursell earned his MD from St Mary’s Hospital in London and became a Fellow of the Royal College of Ophthalmologists in 1995. Dr. Ursell is one of few surgeons to be awarded an MD degree in modern cataract surgery. He served for 9 years on the Council of UKISCRS (United Kingdom & Ireland Society of Cataract & Refractive Surgeons). Sheilagh Maguiness, MD Board Certified Pediatric Dermatologist Dr. Sheilagh Maguiness is a board certified Pediatric Dermatologist. Dr. Maguiness has a strong commitment to patient and family education surrounding pediatric skin conditions. Her clinical and research interests include atopic dermatitis/eczema, acne and the diagnosis and management of vascular anomalies including hemangiomas, capillary malformations (port-wine stains), and complex vascular birthmarks. Dr. Maguiness received her MD from the University of Western Ontario, completed a dermatology residency at the University of Alberta, and trained in fellowship in pediatric dermatology at the University of California - San Francisco. Albert Chang, OD Optometrist Dr. Chang is an Optometrist at the Family EyeCare Center in Campbell, California. He graduated from the Southern California College of Optometry in 2015. He has interests in diagnosing and managing ocular disease, including diabetic retinal disease, glaucoma, and macular degeneration. Amer Alnajar, MD Head Physician, Vytaliz.com Dr. Alnajar is a Founding Partner, Physician, and Chief Strategy Officer at Vytaliz in New York, specializing in internal medicine. He received his MD from Drexel University College of Medicine in 2011. He is licensed in Pennsylvania and in New York. Lee-Hsin Fang, DPM Podiatrist Dr. Fang is a licensed Foot and Ankle Surgeon with his own medical practice in Mountain View, California. He received his Doctorate degree from California College of Podiatric Medicine in San Francisco, California and completed his residency at the California College of Podiatric Medicine in 1999. Brent Wong, DMD Doctor of Dental Medicine Dr. Wong is the Owner and Principal Dentist at Shine Dental in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He completed his Doctorate in Dentistry and residency at the University of Manitoba in 2000. Dr. Wong has over 18 years of experience in dentistry and specializes in Dental Implants, Cosmetic Dentistry, Obstructive Sleep Apnea, TMD. Brian Maloney, MD Board Certified Otolaryngologist Dr. Maloney is a double board certified Plastic Surgeon in Georgia and founder of The Maloney Center for Facial Plastic Surgery based in Atlanta. He completed his residency in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck surgery at SUNY Health Sciences Center in 1991. He was a 2016 MyFaceMyBody USA finalist for Plastic Surgery and named a 2014, 2015, and 2016 Top Health, Beauty & Fitness Expert by The Atlantan Magazine. Jessica Ahmann, PhD PhD in Nursing, University of North Dakota Dr. Ahmann is a Doctor of Nursing Practice at Mid Dakota Clinic in North Dakota, where she specializes in Hematology and Oncology. She received her Doctor of Nursing Practice from the University of North Dakota in 2015. She is certified by the American Nurses Credentialing Center and is a member of the Oncology Nursing Society and the North Dakota Nurse Practitioner Association. Julia Bowlin, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Bowlin is a practicing Family Practitioner in Greenville, Ohio specializing in Allergy and Immunology. She received her MD from the Wright State University Boonshoft School of Medicine and completed her residency at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio. She has over 25 years of practicing experience. Stephen Chow, MD Internal Medicine Physician Dr. Chow is an Internal Medicine Physician in Jackson, Mississippi. Dr. Chow received his MD from the Medical University of the Americas 2014 and completed his residency at the University of Mississippi Medical Center. He is a member of the American Board of Internal Medicine. Tapan Abrol, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Abrol is an MD in Alabama. Specializing in neurology, he has over 11 years of experience. He completed his MD at the Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences & Hospital and finished his residency in Neurology at the University of Louisville in 2017. His fellowship was completed at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mt Sinai, NY. He is a member of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology. Venessa Peña-Robichaux, MD Board Certified Dermatologist Dr. Peña-Robichaux is a board certified Dermatologist and Clinical Professor in Texas specializing in the treatment of pediatric and adult skin conditions. She completed her MD at Harvard Medical School in 2010 and completed her residency at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, Michigan. She is a member of the American Academy of Dermatology and the American Telemedicine Association. Allan Evangelista, MD Foot & Ankle Surgeon Dr. Evangelista is a Foot and Ankle Surgeon at Mountaineer Orthopedic Specialists in Morgantown, West Virginia. He graduated from Temple University School of Medicine in 2002 and completed his fellowship at Sarasota Orthopedic Associates in 2006. Carolyn Messere, MD Physician & Surgeon Dr. Messere is a licensed Colon and Rectal Surgeon and medical writer in Florida. She received her MD from the University of Massachusetts Medical School and completed her residency in Colon and Rectal Surgery at the Carle Foundation Hospital in 2005. She was an American College of Surgeons (ACS) Fellow in 2012. Daniel Larson, MD Board Certified Otolaryngologist Dr. Larson is a board certified Otolaryngologist at Southwest Ohio ENT Specialists. Dr. Larson spent 5 years in the United States Air Force Medical Corp following his residency, which he completed in Head and Neck Surgery at the Eastern Virginia Medical School in 2007. He is a member of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Jake Behrens, MD Psychiatrist Dr. Behrens is the CEO and Director of Envision ADHD in Milwaukee. Dr. Behrens is an Assistant Clinical Professor at the University of Wisconsin and a practicing Psychiatrist. He completed his residency in Psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics in 2013. Jody Leng, MD Board Certified Anesthesiologist Dr. Leng is a board certified Anesthesiologist and a Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine at Stanford University. She completed a fellowship in Regional Anesthesiology at the Stanford Medical Center in 2014. She is a member of the California Society of Anesthesiologists and was awarded the Teaching Excellence Award by the Stanford University School of Medicine in 2016. Mitul Mehta, MD Board Certified Vitreoretinal Surgeon Dr. Mehta is a board certified Ophthalmologist and Vitreoretinal Surgeon at UC Irvine in California. He received his MD from the University of Southern California Keck School of Medicine in 2008, after which he completed an ophthalmology residency at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine. Nicole Cushman, MPH Sexual Health Educator & Master's Degree, Public Health, Columbia University Nicole Cushman is an educator in Sexual and Reproductive Health, whose writing has appeared in the New York Times, CNN, and the Huffington Post. She is the Executive Director of Answer, a national sex-ed organization. She received her MPH from Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health in 2011. Ray Schilling, MD General Practitioner Dr. Schilling is a retired Physician in British Columbia, Canada. He has practiced Family Medicine in Canada for over 16 years. He received his MD from the Eberhard-Karls-University Medical School in 1971. He is a member of the Canadian Society of Clinical Hypnosis and the American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine, and he has been on the Worker’s Compensation Board of British Columbia as a medical advisor. Robert Rice, DC Doctor of Chiropractic Medicine Dr. Rice is a Chiropractic Physician and Owner of Shiloh Chiropractic in Illinois. Dr. Rice started Shiloh Chiropractic in 2006. He received his DC from Logan University of Chiropractic in 2006. David Isaacs, MD Board Certified Oculofacial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeon Dr. David Isaacs is a Board Certified and Dual-Fellowship trained Oculofacial Plastic and Reconstructive surgeon in Beverly Hills, California. Dr. Isaacs treats aesthetic and functional conditions of the face and eyelids, as well as revision surgery and aesthetic reconstruction. He graduated with Honors from both the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and the Chicago Medical School. Dr. Isaacs completed a General Surgery internship at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and an Ophthalmology residency at New York Med, where he also served as Chief Resident. Dr. Isaacs returned to UCLA for a fellowship in Oculofacial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery & Orbital Surgery. Dr. Isaacs then completed a second fellowship in Facial Cosmetic, Plastic, and Reconstructive Surgery through his UCLA fellowship. Dr. Isaacs is one of the few surgeons in the United States to complete both fellowships, be double board certified, be a member of the American Society of Oculofacial Plastic Surgery (ASOPRS), and be a member of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery (AAFPRS). Lisa Sanders, MD, FACP Board Certified Physician & Medical Author Dr. Lisa Sanders, MD, FACP is an American physician, medical author, journalist, and an Associate Professor of Internal Medicine at the Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Sanders also writes the popular Diagnosis column for the New York Times Magazine and the Think Like a Doctor column featured in the New York Times blog, The Well. In 2010, Dr. Sanders published "Every Patient Tells a Story: Medical Mysteries and the Art of Diagnosis." Dr. Sanders received her BA from the College of William and Mary and completed an MD and residency at Yale University. She is board certified in internal medicine by the Associate Board of Internal Medicine. Yuly Gorodisky, DO, FACOS Board Certified Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeon Dr. Yuly Gorodisky is a board-certified plastic surgeon based in Oxnard, CA With over 17 years of experience, Dr. Gorodisky earned a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) from Nova Southeastern University and is trained and board certified in plastic and reconstructive surgery by the American Osteopathic Board of Surgery.  Dr. Gorodisky’s practice, West Coast Plastic Surgery Center, specializes in cosmetic surgeries of the face, breast, and body, as well as reconstructive surgery. He and his team offer a patient-centered, holistic approach, and are committed to patient safety.  He holds medical licenses in California, New York, and Florida. Dr. James Q. Simmons Nurse Practitioner James Simmons is a Nurse Practitioner. Janine Kelbach, RNC-OB, MA Certified Registered Nurse Janine Kelbach is a Registered Nurse at Lake Health West Medical Center in Ohio. Kelbach has been a registered nurse in the State of Ohio since 2006. She is a member of the International Nurses Association, is a Certified CPR Instructor, and has an MA in Nursing from Capella University. Aaron Broadwell, MD Rheumatologist Dr. Broadwell is a licensed Rheumatologist based in Shreveport, Louisiana. He specializes in Musculoskeletal Ultrasound. He received his MD from the University of Texas Medical Branch in 2007 and has previously served as an ACR (American College of Radiology) Fellow. Angela Kerchner, MD Board Certified Family Medicine Physician Dr. Kerchner is a board certified Family Medicine Physician in Des Moines, Iowa. She is the current Medical Director of Ringgold County Hospital. She received her MD from the University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine in 2010. She is also a Diplomate on the American Board of Integrative Holistic Medicine. Bobby Homayoon, MD Family & Sports Medicine Physician Dr. Homayoon is a Sports Medicine Physician based in Alberta, Canada. Dr. Homayoon specializes in sports medicine, internal medicine, public health and epidemiology. He received his MD from the University of British Columbia Faculty of Medicine in 2015, completed a Residency in Internal Medicine at the University of Calgary and the University of Ottawa in 2019. He is a member of The College of Family Physicians in Canada. Eric Deutsch, MD Board Certified Cardiac Anesthesiologist Dr. Deutsch is a board certified Cardiac Anesthesiologist in Boise, Idaho. He completed his residency at the Mayo Clinic and his fellowship at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. He is a member of the Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists, the American Society of Anesthesiologists, and SOAP (Society of Obstetrical Anesthesia and Perinatology). James Larmer, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Larmer is a Family Medicine Physician in Ontario. He received his MD from McMaster University in 2009 and completed his residency in Family Medicine in 2011. He has served as a Board Member on the Brighton Quinte West Family Health Organization Board and is accredited by the College of Family Physicians of Canada (CFPC). Kirsten Kind, MD Family Medicine Physician Dr. Kind is a Family Medicine Physician specializing in pediatric radiology in Scotland. She received her MD from the University of Edinburgh Medical School in 2009. In 2017, she was elected as a Fellow of The Royal College of Radiologists. Mitzi Scotten, MD Board Certified Pediatrician Dr. Scotten is a board certified Pediatrician in Arizona. She received her MD from the University of Kansas in 1993 and completed her Pediatric residency at Kosair Children’s Hospital. Dr. Scotten was the director of the Pediatric Cystic Fibrosis clinic at the University of Kansas, was voted as a Kansas City Star “Top Doc” for 5 years, and has been selected to the National Board of Medical Examiners. Peter Stahl, MD Board-Certified Urologist, SVP at Hims Dr. Peter Stahl is a Board-Certified Urologist with over 18 years of experience. He specializes in male reproductive medicine, male infertility surgery, testosterone deficiency, and male sexual dysfunction. Dr. Stahl is nationally recognized for his work and is the author of over 50 journal articles and textbook chapters. He holds a BS and MD from Cornell University. Dr. Mike Mew Orthodontist and Mewing Expert Dr. Mike Mew is a Orthodontist and Mewing Expert. Janice Litza, MD Board Certified Family Medicine Physician Dr. Litza is a Board Certified Family Medicine Physician based in Racine, Wisconsin. With over 25 years of educational and professional experience, she has extensive experience providing full-spectrum Family Medicine, including obstetrics, newborn care, and hospital medicine. She is currently the Residency Program Director for Family Medicine at Ascension. Dr. Litza received her MD from the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health and has completed additional fellowship training in Integrative Medicine through the University of Arizona. Miscellaneous Stina Garbis Psychic Astrologer Reverend Stina Garbis is a Psychic Astrologer and the Owner of Psychic Stina. With over 30 years of experience, she specializes in providing personal and professional advice through astrology and tarot card readings. Reverend Stina has experience working with high-profile celebrities, sports figures, politicians, and CEOs. She has been featured in many publications, including Bustle, Vice, The New York Post, and Readers’ Digest and she also has a 200k+ following on TikTok. Stina holds an Ordained Minister License from The International Metaphysical Ministry University Seminary. Candace Gasper Social Media & Digital Marketing Consultant Candace Gasper is a Social Media & Digital Marketing Consultant and the Owner of Digital Candy, a social media agency. With over seven years of professional experience, Candace is an expert in social media and content creation, specializing in working with local businesses to share their narratives and help them expand their reach. Candace received her Bachelor of Science in Merchandising, Apparels, and Textiles from the University of Kentucky. Ishrak Gaming & Video Expert Ishrak is a Gaming & Video Expert specializing in sharing Pokémon and Minecraft videos. With over eight years of gaming and streaming experience, Ishrak has a follower base of over 35,000 YouTube subscribers and over 8 million views. He is also a Pokémon ROM-Hacker and some of his most popular videos highlight tips and advice for people learning how to play Pokémon games. Angel Eyedealism Astrologer & Performance Artist Angel Eyedealism is an Astrologer and Performance Artist based in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. With nearly three decades of astrology experience, Angel specializes in relocation astrology and astrocartography. Eyedealism has been featured in numerous media outlets such as Vogue, Cosmopolitan, The Atlantic, The Washington Post, Refinery29, NBC, MTV, Showtime, and Bravo. Angel aims to help others through a straightforward, kind, and humorous astrological lens, utilizing her entertainment and singing skills for performance art astrology readings. Ashton Wu Board Game Expert Ashton Wu is a Board Game expert at Shelfside. After delving into the Yugioh tournament community while growing up, Ashton launched himself into the board gaming community in 2014 and went into reviewing board games as a career full-time in 2019. His YouTube channel Shelfside has over 50K subscribers and over 4 million views, assisted by written reviews on the Shelfside website and BoardGameGeek.com. He also consults with gaming companies to build high-quality gaming products. Ashton is a tournament commentator, board game playthrough director, and host of the Shelfside Podcast, where he talks about board games with his business partner, Daniel. He received a Bachelor of Arts in Economics at the University of California, Santa Barbara, in addition to the Technology Management Certificate. Anyah Le Gilmore-Jones Social Media Marketing Expert Anyah Gilmore-Jones is a Social Media Marketing Expert based in Nashville, Tennessee. An innovative experiential and social media marketer, Anyah is skilled at creating engaging brand experiences and leverages her passion for connecting people and ideas to drive organic growth for purpose-driven brands. As the founder of GROW by Gilmore, a social media strategy company, Anyah develops data-driven social media strategies focused on authentic community building. She has over 4 years of experience spearheading viral campaigns and producing content for brands like HBCU Buzz, Black & Scholared, SHEIN, and Project Art Collective. She received her BA from Howard University in Political Science and Government. Michelle Arbeau Numerologist Michelle Arbeau is a Numerologist & Life Strategist, and the CEO of Authentic You Media and Eleven Eleven Productions. She’s based in West Hollywood, California. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in numerology, mediumship, and business advice. In 2015, Best Businesses named her the Best of West Hollywood Celebrity Numerologist, and she’s been hailed as the #1 Numerologist in the World and the #1 Celebrity Numerologist. Erin Hostetler Edible Gardening Expert Erin Hostetler is an Edible Gardening Expert and the Owner & Farmer of The Patio Farmer, a small business based in Charlotte, North Carolina. With over 10 years of experience working on farms and growing food, Erin specializes in providing consultations, installations, and custom maintenance plans for people wanting to grow food in small (or large) spaces at their homes and businesses. Erin loves teaching other people the magic of growing your own food. She's a firm believer that there is a green thumb in everyone! Erin has degrees from Appalachian State University and King's College London, both of which guided her to start her business. Bess Ruff, MA Environmental Scientist Bess Ruff is a Scientist based in Sydney, Australia. Her research interests and previous scientific experience include environmental science, geography, biotechnology, mariculture, marine spatial planning, stakeholder engagement, and spatial ecology. She is a Postdoctoral Researcher at University of Sydney and a Project Manager at Offshore Biotechnologies. Prior to her work in Sydney, Bess was a Postdoctoral Researcher for over 2 years at Florida State University. She received a PhD in Geography from Florida State University, with a doctoral dissertation entitled "Culturing a Sustainable Seafood Future: How Governance, Economics, and Society Are Driving the Global Marine Aquaculture Industry”. She received her MA in Environmental Science and Management from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 2016. She has conducted survey work for marine spatial planning projects in the Caribbean and provided research support as a graduate fellow for the Sustainable Fisheries Group. Jennifer McVey, Cht Spiritual Director Jennifer McVey is a Spiritualist, Seer, and the Spiritual Director of  Spiritual Answers and Solutions. With more than 22 years of experience, she specializes in manifesting, ghosts and spirit attachments, hypnotherapy, channeling, and spiritually based life coaching. Jennifer has also published 13 Affirmation Image and six Word Search Puzzle books in spirituality and self-help and has produced over 600 audio sessions. Zac Churchill Minecraft Specialist Zac Churchill is a Minecraft Specialist based in Davidson, North Carolina. Zac has played Minecraft for over 10 years and has extensive knowledge of how to play Minecraft and how the game has changed over the different versions. Specifically, Zac has expert experience in survival worlds, large builds on creative mode, and server design/upkeep. He graduated in 2023 with a BA in Sociology and English from Tufts University. Jason Zuk Intuitive Psychic Medium Jason Zuk is a Psychic Medium based in Tampa, Florida. He has almost 20 years of experience and has worked professionally as a psychic medium for six years. Jason works with people to confront obstacles and challenges so they can reach personal clarity. He is the Producer and Host of the podcast, The Social Psychic Radio Show, which is a seven-time Award Winning Podcast ranked in the Top 2% of all podcasts globally. Jason is also the Producer and Co-Host with Megan Kane of his second show, Psychic Visions Podcast, which is signed with ElectraCast Media. Jason received his Bachelor of Arts from the University of Tampa, a Juris Doctorate from Nova Southeastern University, and an LL.M. (Master of Law) in International & Comparative Law from Georgetown University. Cory Schifter Jeweler & Certified Jewelry Appraiser Cory Schifter is a Jeweler, Certified Jewelry Appraiser, and the Owner of Casale Jewelers in Dongan Hills, Staten Island, New York. Casale Jewelers is known for its selection of fine jewelry, designer brands, engagement rings, certified diamonds, custom-made jewelry, and watches. Cory has over 10 years in the jewelry industry and is a certified jewelry appraiser. Cory was featured on NY1 News “Got it Made in New York” for Casale Jewelers’ custom design business and Casale Jewelers was recognized by American Express and Facebook in 2012 as one of the top five small businesses in the nation. Ky Furneaux Survival and Outdoors Expert Ky Furneaux is a survival expert, outdoor guide, and professional stuntwoman based in Australia. She’s been featured in over 100 films and TV productions, and has hosted, produced, and participated in some of the most extreme TV survival shows including MTV’s Made and Discovery’s Naked and Afraid. She has authored 5 survival books, including "The Superwoman’s Survival Guide" and "Survive: The All-In-One Guide to Staying Alive in Extreme Conditions", with the goal of sharing her knowledge of survival techniques with others. As an accomplished stuntwoman, she won a Taurus Award in 2012 for Best Female Stunt Performer and has doubled stars like Jennifer Garner, Anne Hathaway, Jaime Alexander, and Sharon Stone. Saul Jaeger, MS Police Captain, Mountain View Police Department Saul Jaeger is a Police Officer and Captain of the Mountain View, California Police Department (MVPD). Saul has over 17 years of experience as a patrol officer, field training officer, traffic officer, detective, hostage negotiator, and as the traffic unit’s sergeant and Public Information Officer for the MVPD. At the MVPD, in addition to commanding the Field Operations Division, Saul has also led the Communications Center (dispatch) and the Crisis Negotiation Team. He earned an MS in Emergency Services Management from the California State University, Long Beach in 2008 and a BS in Administration of Justice from the University of Phoenix in 2006. He also earned a Corporate Innovation LEAD Certificate from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business in 2018. Olivia Woodford Holy Bible Expert Olivia Woodford is a Holy Bible Expert and the Founder of Bible Women Speak. Olivia has been teaching biblical stories of women through theater since 1992. She is a member of Biblical Storytellers International and has performed at and hosted learning retreats with churches, schools, and women's groups of all denominations throughout the United States, Canada, and New Zealand. Olivia has a BFA in Theater Arts from Boston University. Legends of Avantris Dungeons & Dragons Experts Legends of Avantris is a group of Dungeons & Dragons Experts and content creators of their successful eponymous YouTube channel. Composed of seven best friends whose passion is playing D&D, Legends of Avantris has built a multifaceted business, streaming on Twitch, running their YouTube channel, selling their successful merch line, producing their podcast, and launching their first Kickstarter campaign: The Crooked Moon, a folk horror supplement for 5th edition. Meredith Juncker, PhD Scientific Researcher Meredith Juncker is a scientific researcher based in Brookline, Massachusetts. Currently working as a Senior Patent Technology Specialist at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Meredith is able to leverage her expertise in biochemistry and molecular biology. She received a PhD in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, focusing on proteins and neurodegenerative diseases. She went on to work as a Postdoctoral Associate at the Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at the State University of New York at Buffalo. Craig Morton Aquarium Specialist, CEO of Aquarium Doctor Inc. Craig Morton is the CEO of Aquarium Doctor Inc. based in Huntington Beach California and servicing Orange County, Los Angeles County, and the Inland Empire. With over 30 years of aquarium experience, Craig specializes in creating custom aquarium designs along with aquarium installation, service, and maintenance. Grant Wallace Landscaper Grant Wallace is a Landscaper and Owner of Grantlanta Lawn in Atlanta, Georgia. With over seven years of experience, he specializes in lawn maintenance and landscape installation. In 2012, he earned his BA from the University of West Georgia. Grant has been profiled in Shoutout Atlanta, Canvas Rebel, and Voyage ATL. Tobi Nwodo Meme, Brainrot, and Slang Content Creator Tobi (Hyperstrides) Nwodo is an influencer and content creator based in Los Angeles, CA. Tobi first got his start making videos about gaming and Fortnite, and later transitioned into commenting on internet culture, memes, trends, and slang. He has over 9 years of social media experience. His videos aim to educate and entertain his audience of over 600k followers across YouTube and TikTok, and he can be seen breaking down brain rot characters or explaining the newest memes or slang. Tobi is currently studying business at the University of Southern California. Marshall Stephens Aquarium Specialist Marshall Stephens is an Aquarium Expert at Private Oceans Aquariums in West Palm Beach, Florida. Marshall has over 20 years of experience in the aquarium industry and focuses on captive-bred animals. They specialize in tropical and marine aquariums and are a contributor to the Loggerhead Marine life center in Jupiter Florida. Anthony Porter Outdoorsman and Survival Expert Anthony Porter is a nature educator, archer, and outdoorsman based in South Lake Tahoe, California. He is an Outdoor Survival expert, and educates millions around the world through his social media presence as “Outdoor Anthony”. His videos have turned him into a viral sensation on TikTok & Instagram, where he has over 400k followers. He is the current Communications Director of the Tahoe Rim Trail Association, promoting wildlife stewardship and preservation on print media, TV, and radio. Anthony has also showcased his outdoor prowess as a recurring yearly TV athlete as NBC's the Archery Ninja on American Ninja Warrior. He is also the producer, editor and Host of the Orangutan Podcast, discussing rainforest conservation initiatives with Dr. Gary Shapiro, famous for teaching orangutans symbolic sign language. As a professional educator for the better part of a decade, Anthony has explored 20 countries, and has taught people of all ages across the United States. He received a Bachelor’s degree in Parks and Recreation Management from Northern Arizona University, and earned an MBA from Cal Poly Pomona with a concentration in sustainable Marketing, and is always looking to dive right into the next adventure. Tara Divina Vedic Astrologer Tara Divina is a California-based Vedic Astrologer. Vedic Astrology, also known as Jyotish, is an ancient, sacred art of self-understanding and divination. With nearly 10 years of experience, Tara gives personalized readings that answer her clients' biggest questions about relationships, money, purpose, career, and other big life decisions. Angela Rice Luxury Travel Specialist Angela Rice is a Luxury Travel Specialist and Co-Founder of Boutique Travel Advisors, a luxury travel advising business in Phoenix, Arizona. Angela specializes in consulting and curating highly customized and unique travel itineraries for clients seeking luxury, group, and multi-generational family travel. Angela studied at Arizona State University and The University of Iowa Tippie College of Business. She has prior consulting experience in accounting and business, which helps her run her business behind the scenes. Angela has been featured in The Washington Post, Reader's Digest, Travel Weekly, USA Today, Travel Market Report, Phoenix Magazine, and MSN. She is also a frequent guest on WBBM News Radio 105.9 FM's Travel Tuesday show. Jenna Jean Davis Social Media Influencer & Marketer Jenna Jean Davis is a Social Media Influencer & Marketer and the Founder and CEO of Jenna Jean Marketing LLC. With over five years of experience, she specializes in organic social media marketing, TikTok marketing, and Instagram marketing. Jenna is also an established TikTok creator. Jenna earned her BA in Journalism from the University of Utah. Belal Elkadri Islam Education Expert & Motivational Speaker Belal Elkadri is an Islamic education expert and motivational speaker based in Detroit, Michigan. Belal is passionate about challenging the stigmas plaguing the Muslim community and bridging the gap through education, and ahs worked in the non-profit space for over 10 years. As a community outreach coordinator with The Family Youth Institute, Belal helped inform Imams across the nation on a variety of research, including issues involving youth, addiction, elderly care, parenting, and mental health. He has hosted numerous webinars to honor the Prophet Muhammad in coordination with Celebrate Mercy. He has also led multiple classes on the Sabr App, a guided meditation app for Muslims, and developed courses to help the spiritual and mental health of Muslims. His work with the Muslim Enrichment Project has helped connect new converts with local mosques in addition to providing reverts with Islamic education. Belal also encouraged mosques across the nation to accommodate the special needs community as the certification manager with MUHSEN. Kennon Young Master Gemologist Appraiser Kennon Young is a Master Gemologist Appraiser and the Owner of Vermont Gemological Laboratory in Burlington, Vermont. With over 20 years of experience in the industry, Kennon and his team specialize in handmade engagement rings, wedding bands, and custom jewelry. He attended the Revere Academy of Jewelry Arts, the Gemological Institute of America, and the Rhode Island School of Design Extension. He is a Jewelers of America (JA) Certified Bench Jeweler Technician and received the highest credential in the jewelry appraisal industry, the ASA Master Gemologist Appraiser, in 2016. Mekaeel Mohsin Imam Shaykh Mekaeel is an Imam at the Islamic Community of Salinas in Salinas, California. He is the founder of the Voyagers of Knowledge YouTube channel, which creates Islamic educational content. He attended the Islamic University of Madinah and earned a degree from the school of Da'wah and Usuluddeen. Alina Bokovikova Costume Designer Alina Bokovikova is a Costume Designer from California. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in designing costumes for stage productions. Alina earned an MFA in Costume Design from the University of California, San Diego and her Master of Education from the Novosibirsk Pedagogical University. She’s won two Outstanding Costume Design awards and her costumes have been displayed in Moscow, Prague, and San Jose, California. Jeffrey Fermin Employee Relations Expert Jeffrey Fermin is an Employee Relations Expert based in Miami, Florida. He currently works as Head of Demand Generation for AllVoices, a platform that manages employee relations issues. Through his work, he has developed extensive experience with understanding human behavior and the intricacies of work life. He’s also the Founder of a full-service marketing company called New Theory. He has more than 13 years of experience in B2B SaaS marketing, and has specifically focused on human resources technology, digital marketing, and content creation. He earned a Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology and a Bachelor of Education from Florida International University. Jeffrey has won a Microsoft Octas Innovation Award and is a TechCrunch Disrupt Runner-Up. Shweta Sharma Biologist Shweta Sharma is a Biologist with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). With nearly ten years of experience, she specializes in insect management, integrated pest management, insect behavior, resistance management, ecology, and biological control. She earned her PhD in Urban Entomology and her MS in Environmental Horticulture from the University of Florida. She also holds a BS in Agriculture from the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Sciences, Nepal. Scott Nelson, JD Police Sergeant, Mountain View Police Department Scott Nelson is a Police Sergeant with the Mountain View Police Department in California. He is also a practicing attorney for Goyette & Associates, Inc. where he represents public employees with a myriad of labor issues throughout the state. He has over 15 years of experience in law enforcement and specializes in digital forensics. Scott has received extensive training through the National Computer Forensics Institute and holds forensic certifications from Cellbrite, Blackbag, Axiom Forensics, and others. He earned a Master of Business Administration from the California State University Stanislaus and a Juris Doctorate from the Laurence Drivon School of Law. Mark Russell Christian Theology Expert Mark Russell is a Christian Theology Expert based in Bourbonnais, Illinois. He is a Senior High School Youth Pastor at Gathering Point Church of the Nazarene, and has held this post for over nine years. He is the director of the Next Gen programs at the church, managing all youth education programs. Through this role, he also leads a team of adult youth leaders and completes preaching duties. Prior to working at Gathering Point, he worked as Assistant Principal at Grove City Christian School and was a Youth Pastor at Grove City Church of the Nazarene. He received a BA in Elementary Education and Teaching from Mount Vernon Nazarene University. Sonya Prior Baby Naming Expert and Content Creator Sonya Prior is a name consultant known as the BB Namer based in Auckland, New Zealand. With a lifelong interest in names and a background in brand strategy, marketing, and copywriting, Sonya has grown her passion for names into a baby naming consulting business and shares name content on social media to over 30k followers across Instagram and TikTok. Sonya has worked with families around the world and has been featured in The Cut, The New Zealand Herald, The Telegraph, The Sydney Morning Herald, and more. Brandon Runyon Entomology and Pest Control Expert Brandon Runyon is a board-certified Entomologist based in Evansville, Indiana. He has over 18 years of experience as a Pest Control professional, and is the Technical Director of Swat Pest Management. Swat Pest Management serves areas throughout Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois, where they provide safe, cost-effective solutions for client’s pest control needs. He authored Bugged by Bugs: A Comprehensive Guide to Pest Control, a user-friendly guide to commercial pest control practices in hotels, restaurants, apartments, and offices. He graduated from Purdue University with a BS in Entomology, and received a MS in Entomology from The University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He also received an MBA from Western Governors University. Josh Goldbach Outdoor Education Expert Josh Goldbach is an Outdoor Education Expert and the Executive Director of Bold Earth Adventures. Bold Earth leads adventure travel camps for teenagers all over the world. With almost 15 years of experience, Josh specializes in outdoor adventure trips for teens both in the United States and internationally. Josh earned his B.A. in Psychology from Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Florida. He’s also trained as a wilderness first responder, a Leave No Trace master educator, and a Level 5 Swiftwater rescue technician. Mari Cartagenova Psychic Medium & Animal Communicator Mari Cartagenova is a Psychic Medium & Animal Communicator based in Westford, Massachusetts. Mari has been seeing and speaking to Spirits since she was a child, and she loves to share her psychic gifts and abilities to help others. She specializes in mediumship, intuitive psychic guidance, past life or soul reading, and animal communication. Mari is the 2019 Award-Winning Best American Psychic and a Certified Advanced Spirit Worker. Jessica Char Cat & Dog Behavior Consultant Jessica Char is a Cat and Dog Trainer, Behavior Consultant, and the Founder of Feline Engineering and Canine Engineering. She specializes in modifying challenging pet behavior problems, such as fear and aggression, using positive reinforcement training protocols. Jessica is a Certified Fear Free Trainer, a Certified Professional Dog Trainer, and a Certified Separation Anxiety Trainer. She is also a member of the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants. Jessica received her BS and MS in Biomedical Engineering from Washington University in St. Louis. Jess Hamlet Board, Card, and Dice Game Expert Jess Hamlet is a Board, Card, and Dice Game Expert based in Springfield, Missouri. She is the owner of Village Meeple, Springfield’s first Board Game Cafe. The cafe charges an admission fee that grants customers access to over 420 board games while they enjoy the atmosphere. They also serve food and drink, sell board games and accessories, and host private events. They also host events of their own, and put on teaching sessions for a variety of tabletop games for members of the community to come learn. Their board game shop hosts a wide variety of products, including party games, small box games, kid-friendly games, and dice games. Village Meeple champions the growth of in-person gaming, educational encounters, and table-top adventure in the community. Jess received an MBA from Southwest Baptist University and a Bachelor’s in Sports Medicine and Athletic Training from Missouri State University. Robert Vallelunga Locksmith Robert Vallelunga is a Locksmith and the Owner of ACME Locksmith in the Phoenix Metro Area. Robert has over 15 years of experience in the industry and specializes in working with automotive ignitions, locks, keys, and master key systems. Robert and the team at ACME are the #1 Rated Phoenix Locksmith Service and the Winner of the Better Business Bureau Ethics Award. Robert has his Residential & Commercial Contractor’s License and a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University. Victor Adrian Footwear Expert Victor Adrian is a Footwear Expert based in London, UK. He is a Researcher, Tester, and Editor for BestForMyFeet.com, a leading footwear and footcare blog that discusses the importance of wearing the right footwear for the right occasion. Adrian is well-versed in determining which type of footwear is ideal for a variety of work and casual environments thanks to his vast working experience in different types of industries. He teams up with footwear professionals to test products and create comprehensive product reviews and comparisons that help readers choose the ideal footwear for their needs. Additionally, he collaborates with US board-certified podiatrists and foot doctors in order to make sure the information his team provides is always accurate. Adrian studied Biochemistry at the I.E.S. Calderon de la Barca Institute. Ethan Dobbs Pokémon Expert Ethan Dobbs is a distinguished Pokémon Expert based in Dallas, Texas. He began his YouTube career in 2016 and quickly became one of the platform's most prominent Pokémon content creators. Dobbs is renowned for his captivating Top 10's, humorous animations, compelling story-telling, and giant fact videos. He earned his Bachelor's degree in Emerging Media and Communications to complete his digital expertise and enhance his content creation capabilities. Operating two YouTube channels, "Dobbs" and "Dobbs Gaming," he continues to captivate and entertain millions of Pokémon enthusiasts worldwide. Roger Judd Firearms Instructor Roger Judd is a Firearms Instructor based in Mesa, Arizona. Roger and his team at Concealed AZ have been teaching NRA, Arizona Concealed Carry, group and individual firearms training classes as well as promotional, corporate, TV & media machine gun events since 2008. As an NRA Instructor, Roger specializes in teaching people how to safely use rifles, pistols, and shotguns. Kasey Dunn Social Media Expert Kasey Dunn is a Social Media Expert and the Senior Social Media Manager for Golden Arrow PR in the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area. With over five years of experience, she specializes in business development, marketing, and brand design. She earned her BA in Business Administration and Management from Mount St. Joseph University. She also holds a SEMRUSH for Digital Agencies Certification, an SEO for Social Media Certification, and a Social Media Marketing Strategy: TikTok and Instagram Reels Certification. Sydney Bermudez Urban Legends Expert Sydney Bermudez is a horror content creator and Mexican folklore and urban legends expert. Sydney is a storyteller, who crafts engaging narratives that explore paranormal cases, internet mysteries, and psychological horror. She shares content on TikTok and Instagram to over 400k followers. Sydney specializes in horror storytelling, Mexican folklore, creepy pastas and urban legends, and is interested in how horror intersects with pop culture, social media trends, and modern myth-making. Her videos have received over 12 million likes on TikTok, with some videos reaching over 10 million views. Brandon Riley Anime and Manga Content Creator Brandon Riley is an anime and manga content creator based in Australia. With over 4 years of experience, Brandon is an anime video essayist, creating videos for social media, sharing his thoughts and analysis of anime and manga that he reads. Known as @BrandonRTalks on social media, he boasts over 125k followers and over 15 million views. Greg Guiteras Travel Specialist Greg Guiteras is the CEO of Lorraine Travel, LLC, one of the largest privately-owned travel management companies in Florida founded in 1948. With over 34 years of experience, Greg's specialties are in corporate travel management, sales and marketing, contract negotiations, strategic partnerships, and luxury hotel sales. Greg holds a BS in Marketing from Florida State University. Greg has also created WhataHotel!, a website offering exclusive perks on hotel bookings, and CabinMate, an app that matches single cruise travelers with potential cabin matches "in the same boat" to avoid traveling solo on a cruise. Isabelle Garson Social Media Expert Isabelle Garson is a Social Media Expert based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With 10 years of experience, she works in social media strategy and content production. She specializes in music and cannabis marketing and has worked with international touring artists. Isabelle studied graphic design at the Academy of Art University. Additionally, she holds a certification from Sprinklr Research Analyst Pro. Olivia Choong Plant & Gardening Specialist Olivia Choong is a Plant and Gardening Specialist and the Owner of The Tender Gardener. With more than six years of experience, she specializes in gardening, permaculture, and self-sufficient and low-impact living practices. Her work has been featured in media outlets such as The Straits Times and Channel NewsAsia (CNA). Olivia holds a Bachelor of Mass Communications in PR and Journalism from Murdoch University. Josh Siegel Numerologist Josh Siegel is a Numerologist based in Los Angeles, California. He is a 25-year veteran expert and uses advanced calculations to identify core issues, give instant clarity to questions, interpret the meaning of seemingly random events, and empower people to change counterproductive patterns to welcome happiness and prosperity. He has completed over 20,000 sessions from a vast international clientele using his breakthrough research-based system. His media appearances include History Channel, USA Network, Jim Carrey’s “The Number 23” DVD, and ABC News. He is published on several online platforms including Goop, Bustle, InStyle, and Well and Good. Himesh Patel Metallurgical Engineer & Manager Himesh Patel is a Metallurgical Engineer at Mcclelland Laboratories in Reno, Nevada. With over five years of industry and graduate research experience in the raw materials industry, Himesh has extensive knowledge of mining and mineral extraction and recovery methods, mine financing, and the environmental impacts of mining. He received his MS in Metallurgical Engineering from the University of Nevada, Reno, and a Dual Degree in Mineral Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad. Himesh is passionate about educating the public about the minerals industry. Clint Bartley Herpetology Expert Clint Bartley is a Herpetology Expert based in Chandler, Indiana. He has over 30 years of experience working with reptiles, and opened Metazotics in 2022, a large reptile breeding facility and specialty store where he oversees a breeding colony of nearly 500 reptiles. Metazotics specializes in reptiles such as colubrids, ball pythons, geckos, tortoises, and more, and serves a national audience with their state-of-the-art online merchandise platform. In particular, Clint is known as an industry leader in Asian rat snake and black rat snake mutations. Clint has successfully reproduced more than 60 species of reptiles in captivity. He was the second person in the United States to produce Archelaphe bella chapaensis (bell rat snakes), and the first person in the U.S. to produce them twice. Metazotics carries a comprehensive line of supplies and habitats, offers all bioactive enclosure needs, and works with local organizations to further their knowledge and understanding of reptiles. Brian Blake Aquarium Expert Brian Blake is an Aquarium Expert and the Owner of Boodleshire Aquatics based in the Kansas City Metro Area. With over 20 years of experience, Brian is an expert in freshwater planted aquariums, saltwater reef aquariums, and aquarium installation, care, and maintenance. Brian holds a Bachelor's degree in Ichthyology and Aquatic Environmental Science from Emporia State University. Bill Green Jewelry & Watch Expert Bill Green is an Expert Jeweler and Appraiser. He is also the Founder & Creative Director of Jewelry & Timepiece Mechanix, and the Founder and Designer of Amaroo Handmade Opal Jewelry, based in Haddonfield, New Jersey. With over 40 years of industry knowledge, he and his team are known for restoring everything from new watches to vintage jewels and being one of the few shops that still design and make jewelry and watches. Jewelry & Timepiece Mechanix is part of the American Society of Jewelers and Gemologists and Ethical Metalsmiths. Bill studied at the Miami Jewelry Institute and the Gemological Institute of America as well as apprenticed with many accomplished craftspeople. Alexandra Doss Poultry & Livestock Expert Alexandra Doss is a Poultry & Livestock Expert expert based in Ruskin, Florida. She owns and manages Stellar Game Birds, Poultry, Waterfowl LLC, a selective breeding operation with game birds, poultry, and waterfowl. With over 14 years of experience, she produces strong genetics and health in her hatching eggs, eating eggs, and live birds. The farm is FWC game farm licensed, FDAC licensed for quail, chicken, and duck eating eggs and meat, and NPIP certified. She is known as the Quail Lady and has published several books on raising Coturnix. Her work has been featured in Mother Earth News, Backyard Poultry, Grit, The Chicken Whisperer Magazine, and Community Chickens. She also has a career as a Workforce Management Supervisor and has a certificate in project ​​management. She received a BS from Oregon State in Animal Sciences. Dr. Hayley Elizabeth Wilson Naming Consultant and Childhood Expert Dr. Hayley Elizabeth Wilson is a naming consultant and early childhood expert based in Liverpool, England. Dr. Wilson shares name meanings, naming tips, and other inspiration on social media @little_name_library to over 20k followers on instagram. Dr. Wilson is also a Senior Lecturer in Practice & Employability for the Child and Adolescent Mental Health & Wellbeing degree at Edge Hill University and has extensive experience working with children during early childhood. She received a Bachelor’s degree in Childhood and Adolescence Studies, a Master’s degree in Research, and a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Liverpool John Moores University. Paige Ferris Tarot Reader, Astrologer, and Intuitive Psychic Paige Ferris is a Tarot Reader, Astrologer, and Intuitive Psychic based in Jackson County, MI. With over 6 years of experience, Paige is the founder of Catalyst Healer and specializes in practical occultism and psychological astrology. Paige offers astrology and tarot readings designed to empower her clients and help them achieve their goals. She provides 1:1 in-person and virtual readings to clients, appears at galas, expos, and other events, and shares readings and insights to her over 18k followers on social media. David I. Jacobson Funeral Home Director David I. Jacobson is the founder of Chicago Jewish Funerals, an independent Jewish owned funeral provider that evolved into two funeral homes in the Chicagoland area. With over 30 years of experience serving families, David is a leading expert on Kavod Hamet, the Jewish traditions of honoring and respecting the dead. David is an active funeral director that serves people planning and in need of funerals, lecturing to congregations, community groups, and schools extensively about the values of the Jewish funeral as well as the dying process and the value of one’s legacy. Ryan Glynn, CPA Plant Specialist & Interiorscaper Ryan Glynn is a Plant Specialist, Interiorscaper, and the Founder of Chicago Plants, LLC. He specializes in houseplant care, interior plant-scaping, and gardening. Ryan and Chicago Plants have been featured in several media outlets such as TimeOut Magazine and the Chicago Tribune. Ryan holds a BBA and Master’s degree in Accounting from The University of Wisconsin-Madison. Randy Charach Mentalist, Magician, Author, and Actor Randy Charach is a mentalist, magician, author, and actor based in Vancouver, BC. With over 30 years of experience, Randy is a world-class performer who blends magic, mentalism, and comedy and has performed over 5,000 shows for audiences worldwide, including for Microsoft, Coca-Cola, Disney, Ford, and numerous A-list celebrities. He has also produced more than 50 feature films and shares insights on creativity and reinvention as a speaker and author. Randy has been featured on CBS, Fox, CNN, ABC, NMC, and reviewed by The New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times, and more. Edward Lewand Graduate Gemologist & Accredited Appraiser Edward Lewand is a Graduate Gemologist & Accredited Appraiser with over 36 years of experience in the jewelry industry. He completed his residency in graduate gemology at the G.I.A. in 1979, New York and now specializes in Fine, Antique and Estate Jewelry, consultations and expert witness work. He is a Certified Appraiser of the Appraiser Association of America (AAA) and an Accredited Senior Appraiser (ASA) of the American Society of Appraisers In Gems and Jewelry. Christine Reed Acting Coach and Talent Agent Christine Reed is an Acting Coach and Talent Agent based in Centennial, Colorado. Christine is the owner of PEAK Acting Studios and has been teaching acting since 2010. PEAK Acting Studios offers acting for film and television classes for both kids and adults. Christine has previously taught casting director workshops, worked as a SAG licensed talent agent in LA and was head of the talent division for Peak Talent Agency. In addition, she has experience in casting, production and independent film, commercial, and music video directing. Christine also authored the book "Mom I Want to be on TV" A Parent’s Guide to the Entertainment Industry. Liz Cooledge Jenkins Christian Theology Expert Liz Cooledge Jenkins is a Christian Theology Expert based in Seattle, Washington. She is a freelance writer and preacher. Liz’s writing is focused at the intersections of faith, feminism, and social justice. She is the author of Nice Churchy Patriarchy: Reclaiming Women's Humanity from Evangelicalism. She also blogs at her own Substack, and has written for outlets such as Sojourners, The Christian Century, Premier Christianity, Christians for Social Action, Red Letter Christians, and Feminism & Religion. She worked as a Chaplain for King County Fire District in Burien Washington. Prior to that, she served as College Ministry Director at Peninsula Bible Church in Palo Alto, California. She received a Master of Divinity degree from Fuller Theological Seminary. She earned a BS in Symbolic Systems from Stanford University. Richard Marczewski Jr. Full Stack Marketer Richard Marczewski Jr. is a Full Stack Marketer and owner of Creativity Scientist in Worcester, Massachusetts. With over 10 years of experience, he specializes in marketing, digital media, and content creation. He works with businesses as their outsourced storytelling partner and offers website development, videography, and e-commerce solutions. He started the hipster mustache trend in 2006 and is a classic Nintendo expert. Richard has an MBA in Management from Fitchburg State University. Jones Welding & Industrial Supply Company Welding Experts Jones Welding & Industrial Supply is based in Albany, Georgia, with 12 other locations across South Georgia and down to Central Florida. The company has been in operation for 47 years and is known for providing quality welding and industrial supplies and gases in the southeastern United States. The team specializes in anything and everything from A-Z for welding with experts on site at all locations to help with all of your welding needs. Reyne Hirsch Antiques Expert and Appraiser Reyne Hirsch is an antiques expert, appraiser, writer, and the co-owner of the Dallas Auction Gallery based in Dallas, Texas. With over 25 years of experience, Reyne specializes in 20th century decorative arts, wristwatches, fine art and cars, luxury goods, and jewelry. Reyne was a repeat guest on CBS’ The Early Show and on Martha Stewart Living Radio. She was also the host of The Art of Collecting on NBC News and an on-air talent for 13 seasons of PBS’ Emmy-nominated series, Antiques Roadshow. She is a contributor to The Huffington Post and Buzzfeed, and has written for publications including The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, BusinessWeek, Home & Garden, and more. Reyne also contributed to books including “Antiques Roadshow Collectibles” and “Adventures at the Auction”, and wrote “The Art of Glass” for the Dayton Art Museum. Jerry Ehrenwald Former President, International Gemological Institute & Graduate Gemologist Jerry Ehrenwald, GG, ASA, is a graduate gemologist in New York City. He is the previous President of the International Gemological Institute and the inventor of U.S.-patented Laserscribe℠, a means of laser inscribing onto a diamond a unique indicia, such as a DIN (Diamond Identification Number). He is a senior member of the American Society of Appraisers (ASA) and is a member of the Twenty-Four Karat Club of the City of New York, a social club limited to 200 of the most accomplished individuals in the jewelry business. Aaron Makelky Influencer & Content Creator Aaron Makelky is an Influencer and Content Creator based in Casper, Wyoming. He has a follower base of over 28K on TikTok, where he creates informative videos on the intersection of AI and Education, offers incisive commentary on social trends, and produces explainer videos on modern slang, social interactions, and more. His creative, helpful TikTok videos where he explains Gen Z slang consistently receive thousands of views and educate the online community on the nuances of modern communication. He produces content both on social media and through courses and other educational materials for both students and teachers that empower them to utilize AI better for learning and productivity. In addition to his content creation and AI consulting business, Aaron has a career in Education as a Teacher. He received a Master’s degree in Educational Leadership and Administration from the University of Wyoming and a BA in Social Studies Teacher Education from Montana State University. Dean Kinzer Numismatics Expert Dean Kinzer is a Numismatics Expert. He is a specialist in ancient coins and is the founder of Kinzer Coins, a rare ancient coin dealership and educational coin resource hub. At Kinzer Coins, Dean has built the premier destination for authenticated ancient coins from Roman, Greek, Byzantine, and Biblical periods. Kinzer Coins’ mission is to bring history to life by connecting their clients with the legacy of ancient civilizations through authentic coins. He hosts the Ancient Coin Hour Podcast, which connects his audience directly with leading numismatists and ancient coin experts. The podcast helps listeners avoid common pitfalls while building an investment-grade collection that appreciates in both financial and historical value. Dean’s father was a numismatics expert himself, and taught Dean to recognize authentic ancient artifacts, understand their historical significance, and connect people with tangible pieces of history. He received a Master's Degree from Northern Illinois University with a Certificate in Leadership. Mark Krebs Travel Agent Mark Krebs is a travel agent based in Vermillion, South Dakota. With over 11 years of experience, Mark is the founder of 72 and Sunny Travel and an avid traveler himself. He has several specialty travel certifications, including for autism travel professional and accessible travel advocate. Mark also holds a number of destination-specific, cruiseline, hotel/resort, airline and disney certifications. He is passionate about working with his clients to create their perfect, personalized vacation experience. A.J. Aldana Social Media Specialist A.J. Aldana is a social media specialist who has been using platforms such as Tik Tok, Instagram, and YouTube for over 5 years. A.J. has worked with brands to curate content that has garnered thousands of interactions for various social media campaigns and is passionate about contributing to innovative and trending articles on wikiHow. He holds a BS in Product Design from Stanford University. Hannah Young Outdoor Education Expert Hannah Young is an Outdoor Education Expert with more than three years of experience. She specializes in educating others on backpacking and hiking, land ethics and best practices, and wilderness Restoration. Hannah earned a BS in Earth Systems from Stanford University. Fr. Scott Bailey Catholic Priest Father Scott Bailey is a Catholic Priest based in Denver, Colorado. He currently serves as a Pastor at Risen Christ Catholic Parish in Denver. Father Scott is the face of Risen Christ’s YouTube channel, where he creates a variety of engaging content explaining aspects of Catholicism. He is known for his brief but meaningful sermons, and for making Catholic teaching and spirituality accessible to all. He has a Masters of Divinity from St. John Vianney Theological Seminary, an S.T.B. from the Lateran University, and a BA in philosophy from Regis University. David Chambers Dating and Relationship Coach David Chambers is a men’s dating, relationship, and intimacy coach based in London, England. With over 20 years of experience, David is the founder of The Authentic Man, emphasizing authenticity, self-awareness, emotional intelligence, and breaking down your personal barriers in order to build deep and meaningful relationships. In addition to 1:1 coaching, David has also created online courses including Men’s Dating Accelerator and Being an Authentic Masculine Man. He is also the host of The Authentic Man podcast, aimed at men seeking a better connection with themselves, their feelings, and understanding how to create beautiful relationships. David has been featured in GQ, Mr. Porter, Cosmopolitan, International Press, and BBC Radio London. Shana Tibi Certified Professional Matchmaker Shana Tibi is a Certified Professional Matchmaker, Date and Relationship Coach, and the Founder of Curated Connections, a matchmaking service for single professionals. Shana specializes in understanding core values and personal preferences to curate dates. She holds a BA in Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution from Prescott College and an MSW in Social Work from California State University, Hayward. She is an active member of the Global Love Institute where she earned her matchmaking certifications. Sam Lagor, MSc Geologist Sam Lagor is a Geologist with over eight years of experience. He specializes in engineering geology (dams, bridges, and tunnels) and mineral exploration (gold, lead/zinc, andindustrial minerals). Sam holds a BS in Geology from St. Lawrence University and an MS in Geology from The University of Vermont. He is also a member of the Geological Society of America and the American Institute of Professional Geologists. David Decker Firefighting Expert David Decker is a Firefighting Expert based in Newark, Ohio. Assistant Chief Decker was a career firefighter for 32+ years at Newark Fire Department and served as an Assistant Chief for 14 years. As Assistant Chief, he was in charge of department operations and training. He is now the owner of Command Vision, a fire training company focusing on incident command. He also has a YouTube channel where he uploads dash-cam videos captured at fire scenes that serve as training material for fire officers who want to expand their knowledge. The channel features over 40 structure fire videos and has garnered 55k followers and more than 15 million views. Greg James Blount Acting Coach & Director of Talent Development Greg James Blount is an Acting Coach, Talent Development Director, and co-owner with his wife of the Green Room Acting Studio based in Boca Raton, Florida. Greg has over 30+ years in the talent industry.  His online acting studio trains hundreds of students each month and has been responsible for many actors being discovered and gaining representation, including Kira Kosarin (Nickelodeon's The Thundermans), Kayden Muller (Disney’s Villains of Valley View), Colin O’Brien (WONKA, Dear Edward), Cade Sutton (Disney's Kirby Buckets), and Christopher Cassarino (HULU’s Reasonable Doubt, NBC's New Amsterdam). Greg also owns Sound Tree Entertainment and has produced several award-winning films and TV shows. In May 2024, he directed his first feature film, The Tan Man. Greg has a degree in film production and a minor in fashion photography from the University of South Carolina. João Homem Film & Media Industry Expert João Homem is a Professional Colorist and Film & Media Industry Expert based in Vancouver, British Columbia. As the Co-Founder and Creative Director of Escuro Studios, a Canadian full-service production company, he oversees creative development and both pre- and post-production for diverse projects, including music videos, commercials, films, and TV series. He is also the CEO and founder of Cromatic Elements, an online asset store for filmmakers that supports emerging professionals by providing a platform to share high-quality tools, insights, and assets across multiple creative fields. Originally created to develop filmic assets for personal use, Cromatic has grown into a community-driven space where up-and-coming creatives can access resources designed by top industry professionals. João’s commitment to fostering a collaborative environment and offering accessible, authentic tools has positioned Cromatic as a valuable resource for filmmakers around the world. Natalie Mulholland Name Consultant Natalie Mulholland is a name consultant and content creator based in Athens, Georgia. With a lifelong interest in names, Natalie started creating content around this passion in 2023. She brings a linguistically focused approach to her content, sharing a name’s origin, meaning, category, notable people, and more. She is expecting to receive her bachelor’s degree in human development and family science from the University of Georgia in 2025. Laura Krueger & Michelle Donson Travel Specialists Laura Krueger (right) and Michelle Donson (left) are Travel Specialists and the Founders of LM Media Worldwide, a free service that sources and negotiates contracts for hotel rooms and meeting space needs. With a combined 30 years of experience, they specialize in hospitality sales, contract and rate negotiations, room reservations, and wedding planning. Laura holds a BS in Business Management with High Honors from Rutgers University and has directed several sales teams, negotiated thousands of contracts, and consistently exceeded national sales goals for hotel chains such as Wyndham, Radisson, and Starwood. Michelle holds a BS in Hospitality Management from the University of Delaware and has worked in group sales and banqueting for Marriott and directed several sales teams with InterContinental Hotel Group, Wyndham, and Starwood. Michelle has also earned the prestigious “Salesperson of the Year” award twice consecutively for Wyndham Hotel Group’s national sales team. LM Media Worldwide is trusted by Kleinfeld Hotel Blocks, Marriott, Rosewood Hotels & Resorts, Melia Hotels & Resorts, Gaylord Hotels, Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants, Wyndham Hotel Group, and Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group. Beth Cormack Social Media Manager Beth Cormack is a Social Media Manager based in Washington, D.C. With five years of experience, she specializes in multi-channel social media marketing and storytelling. She earned her Master of Professional Studies from Georgetown University School of Continuing Studies and her BA in Communication from the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. Lauren Forsch CBD Expert Lauren Forsch is a CBD Expert and Founder of Popped.NYC based in New York. Popped.NYC is a cannabis company and lifestyle brand that creates CBD products designed to provide people with relief and promote wellness, self-care, and health. With first-hand experience of managing physical pain and anxiety, Lauren found relief from plant-based, CBD remedies. She created Popped.NYC from a desire to help people manage their pain and offers consultations and a wide variety of handmade, THC-free, vegan CBD products. Popped.NYC closed in July 2025. Roy Cohen Trivia Expert Roy Cohen is a trivia expert and host, also known as That Trivia Guy, based in California and New Jersey. Roy is the creator of Team Trivia, a professionally hosted custom-designed game where teams compete against one another in a game of mental agility. Roy is the author of books on trivia and alternate learning strategies in math, including "That’s Interesting", a book filled with 100 trivia questions and answers with additional interesting anecdotes. He volunteers at local schools teaching math in his free time and previously had a 30-year career on Wall Street. He received a BBA in Finance from Baruch College. Gary Baumgardner Pilot Gary Baumgardner is an airline pilot based in San Diego, CA. With over 18 years of experience, Gary is passionate about helping people overcome their fear of flying through a variety of methods. Gary offers an online course, Skybound: Courage to Fly Academy, which includes 1:1 sessions with experts like pilots, mechanics, and psychologists, and a Facebook support group. By sharing aviation expertise, insights from psychologists, and more, he hopes to provide a holistic approach to help individuals overcome their fear. Gary also shares behind-the-scenes and pilot insights on social media to his over 454k followers. He also hosts a free pilot mentoring program for aspiring pilots. Shayan Faraz Content Creator Shayan Faraz, also known online as Chum, is a content creator based in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Shayan has quickly emerged as an expert voice in the creator economy. Through his viral storytelling and analysis of internet culture, he has amassed over 35,000 followers, 70 million organic views, and over 7 million likes on his TikTok page @chummertok. His videos break down the business of creators and cultural trends, and he has been recognized by famous creators and brands, including Kai Cenat, Vat19, Phillip DeFranco, and more. Shayan is currently pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Michigan. Megan Meketa Crafting Expert and Content Creator Megan Meketa is a crafting expert and content creator based in Menifee, CA. With over 12 years of experience, Megan is the founder of Lovebird Heartworks and specializes in Cricut, sublimation, and laser crafts. She has been creating content online since 2017, sharing Cricut tutorials, tips and tricks, and project ideas. Megan is also the author of The Maker's Guide to Cricut (2022) and has collaborated with brands including Cricut, HSN, and Michaels Arts & Crafts. Bryan Villella Lead Firearms Instructor Bryan Villella is the Lead Firearms Instructor and Owner of Don't Be A Sitting Duck in Kissimmee, Florida. Bryan has nine years of professional experience and is an NRA and Florida State Certified “K” Instructor. He leads certified training courses necessary to get licensed through the state to work in the private security field. He prioritizes safety and building comfortable environments for people to learn skills safely. Sue Ferreri Executive Director of Rockland Farm Alliance Sue Ferreri was the Executive Director of the Rockland Farm Alliance in Rockland County, New York. The Rockland Farm Alliance is a non-profit, broad-based coalition of farmers, community activists, local officials, and interested citizens with a simple mission to preserve, create, and enhance sustainable food production in Rockland County. The Rockland Farm Alliance was dissolved in December of 2024. Sue grew up farming and now helps farmers get organically certified and supports them in creating their businesses. She studied Business Management at Millersville University and Community Development and Viticulture at Stellenbosch University in South Africa. Pam Muller Dream Interpreter and Certified Spiritual Advisor Pam Muller is a dream expert and certified spiritual director based in Alpharetta, Georgia. She completed the spiritual direction training program at the Haden Institute in 2016, specializing in Jungian psychology, Christian spirituality, and dream work. Pam offers 1:1 dream guidance, spiritual direction, and professional supervision for other practitioners. She also leads the Moonlight Membership, a community and course platform designed to help people live with greater connection to their dreams, intuition, and inner wisdom. In addition to her private practice, Pam is a respected educator and leader—serving on the Board of Directors for Zeitgeist, teaching in multiple spiritual direction training programs, and mentoring a growing network of dreamers and spiritual professionals. Maria Souza Comparative Mythologist Maria Souza is a comparative mythologist based in Australia. With over 7 years of experience, Maria is the founder of Women & Mythology, guiding women on a journey to rediscover their true selves through the power of myths, fairy tales, and folktales. Maria is the host of the Women and Mythology Podcast and the author of Wild Daughters, a mythopoetic work that offers inspiration to women. She has also designed thoughtful courses and workshops, focusing on adult learning and exploring myths from both eastern and western traditions. Her Women Who Run With The Wolves Program has hosted hundreds of women across 30 countries. Maria has an advanced training certificate in Applied Mythology from the Pacifica Graduate Institute and a postgraduate degree in Comparative Mythology from the Dédalus Institute. Aaron Bernard Fish & Aquarium Specialist Aaron Bernard is an Aquarium Specialist and the Owner of Limited Edition Corals in Phoenix, Arizona. With over ten years of experience, Aaron specializes in aquarium maintenance, custom design, manufacture, installation, and moving. Aaron holds a BS in Biochemistry from Arizona State University, where he studied the effects of climate change on coral reefs and began to propagate his corals. Jessica Powell Certified Professional Dog Trainer Jessica is a Certified Professional Dog Trainer and the Owner of Proud Paws Dog Training, a small business offering private coaching and in-home dog training services to dog parents across the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, California. With nearly ten years of experience, she has extensive knowledge and experience in dog behavior, effective communication techniques, animal welfare, manners training, behavioral modification, and enrichment. Jessica holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Animal Management and is also an experienced shelter professional. Lindsey Swett Plant Specialist Lindsey Swett is a Plant Specialist and the Owner of Niche Plant Shop in Boston, Massachusetts. She has over a decade of experience working in several plant settings, including golf courses, public parks, and commercial garden centers. Her focus now is on helping plant owners care for their indoor plants. Lindsey holds a Master of Landscape Architecture from The University of Michigan. Lonny Foran Dungeons & Dragons Expert Lonny Foran is a Dungeons & Dragons Expert. He founded his YouTube channel, All Things DnD, in 2015. The channel has amassed 244K subscribers and over 54M views. His website, All Things DnD, is an online community hub for Dungeons & Dragons enthusiasts, hosting a podcast, DnD guides, an NPC generator, quizzes, and more. BlaDe Stardew Valley Expert BlaDe is a Stardew Valley Expert based in New Zealand. He has been playing Stardew for several years, and manages both a YouTube channel and Twitch account dedicated to the game. He has over 60K subscribers on YouTube, and has over 11K followers on Twitch. He is known for speedruns and challenge runs, with a focus on predicting RNG. He is also lauded in the Stardew community for his extensive knowledge of the game’s code. BlaDe has been a lifelong gamer, enjoying all types of games. Outside of his Stardew pursuits, he works full time as a computer programmer. Will Giffard Harry Potter Content Creator Will Giffard is a Harry Potter content creator. With over 10 years of experience, Will shares traveling to Harry Potter film locations, merchandise, film studio tours, and more. He has been a lifelong fan of the series, from having the books read to him as a child, to building a fun community of over 210k Harry Potters fans online. Jean Johnson Cat Specialist Jean Johnson is a Cat Specialist based in Irvine, California. She is the Founder of KittyNook, an online marketplace for cat owners. The company specializes in sourcing high-quality, affordable, products necessary for creating a comfortable home for cats. They sell products such as toys, garments, dishes, scratching posts, beds, and more. They focus on providing innovative products that are not commonly available in brick and mortar stores, while keeping prices low and maintaining efficient, customer-centric support. In addition to running and curating the Kitty Nook e-commerce platform, Jean created the KittyNook Blog. As the primary writer, Jean posts articles sharing insights on cat behavior, health, hygiene, and play. She also provides in-depth information about cats and cat breeds, sharing her writing work on Medium as well. Rachel Cho Floral Designer & Plant Specialist Rachel Cho is a Floral Designer, Plant Specialist, and the Owner of Rachel Cho Floral Design, a floral shop based in New York City. With more than 16 years of experience, she specializes in original and impactful floral design and is known for her dexterity, innate artistry, and design sense. Rachel’s work has been featured in numerous national media outlets such as The New York Times, Harper’s Bazaar, and Huffington Post Weddings. Rhonda Hale Couture Fitting Tailor & Clinical Hypnotherapist Rhonda Hale is a Couture Fitting Tailor & Clinical Hypnotherapist based in New York City with additional design studios in Nice, France. With over 12 years of experience in both professions, Rhonda puts the highest vibration and good energy into every stitch she makes. She has been a master tailor and designer since 1990 and works with brides, celebrities, and high-profile clients around the world to serve all their couture needs. Her custom attention to each client has made her voted the Best Couture Fitting Tailor every year since 2015. Rhonda is also certified in Medical and Subconscious Hypnotherapy and Past Life Regression and uses her skills to help clients heal from trauma and accomplish their personal, professional, and life goals. She has been published in Bride Magazine and was recently filmed for a YouTube documentary series, The American Medium in Ireland, on the Paranormal Resident Channel. Charity Danker, LPC Licensed Therapist and Certified Sex Therapist Charity is a Licensed Therapist and Certified Sex Therapist. She considers herself a Holistic Sex & Relationship Coach based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. With over 11 years of professional experience, she specializes in many fields, including marriage and couples counseling, somatic sex education, and sexual dysfunction. She also practices as a certified orgasmic meditation trainer. Charity received her BA in Psychology from Oklahoma State University and her MA in Marriage and Family Therapy from Southern Nazarene University. She then went on to become AASECT certified in Sex Therapy. Melissa McDermott Designer & Social Media Manager Melissa McDermott is a Musician and accomplished Social Media Manager at coBranding Studio based in New York City. She has over seven years of experience teaching piano and music theory, she currently works as a Piano Instructor at O DiBella Music Inc. Additionally, she specializes in creating meaningful, informative, and quality social media content for health and wellness brands and musicians. Melissa received her B.A. in popular music studies from William Paterson University. Bart Robley Drummer, Drum Teacher, and Author Bart Robley is a Drummer, Drum Teacher, and Author based in Ontario, California. Bart has been sharing his expertise in drumming knowledge through teaching for over 30 years. He makes his teachings globally accessible by offering lessons in an online format. Bart has authored three instructional books and created three instructional DVDs. He received a Bronze Telly Award in 2009 for his DVD "School Of Hard Rocks. Additionally, Bart has been the drummer for the Sam Morrison Band for over 25 years. Thomas G. Waites Acting Instructor Thomas G. Waites is an actor, director, and acting instructor based in New York, New York. He is also the lead singer and songwriter of the band Heartbreak Waites. He has been a part of the entertainment industry since the 1970s, where he has performed on Broadway and appeared on film and television projects. He has appeared in over 30 television and film productions. Some of his credits as a television actor include NYPD Blue, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Oz, Law & Order, Law & Order: Criminal Intent and The Jury. In film, he appeared in Unwed Father, State of Grace, ...And Justice for All, Gangland, An American Affair, The Warriors, and the John Carpenter film The Thing. He has been a member of the Actor's Studio since 1984. He runs TGW Acting Studio, where he seeks to enhance the development of his students by offering the tools and support necessary for them to reach their full potential. He received a B.A. degree in Writing from The New School and a Master of Fine Arts in Playwriting from the University of Iowa. He is a graduate of the Drama Division of The Juilliard School. Doug Flinders Wilderness and Survival Expert Doug Flinders is a wilderness and survival expert based in Canada. Known online as Flinders Adventures, Doug shares his outdoor adventures, gear recommendations, and photography. With a decade of experience teaching wilderness survival and two decades of backpacking and backcountry canoe expeditions, Doug has dedicated his career to mastering and sharing essential outdoor skills. As a seasoned guide, Doug has led backcountry adventures, equipping individuals with the knowledge and confidence to navigate remote environments safely. Doug’s expertise extends to survival strategies, gear selection, and practical techniques that enhance self-sufficiency in the wild. Through hands-on instruction and guided expeditions, Doug strives to instill a deep respect for nature while fostering resilience and adaptability in those he teach. He is a passionate outdoorsman, conservationist, and wilderness skills instructor. Drew Basile Reality TV Contestant and Trivia Expert Drew Basile is a trivia expert, reality TV contestant, and Jeopardy winner based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. With a love of trivia that began in high school, Drew competed in Quiz Bowl and won a national championship his senior year. Drew was a contestant on Survivor 45 in 2023, competing as the youngest contestant that season and placing 6th. After appearing on Survivor, he competed as a television personality on Jeopardy the following year. He held a seven-game winning streak on Jeopardy and returned for the show’s Tournament of Champions in February 2025, where he was eliminated in the semifinals. Andrew is the first Survivor contestant to also be on Jeopardy. He has a Bachelor's degree in English Language and Literature from the University of Pennsylvania and a Master’s degree in English Literature from the University of Oxford. He is currently a Master's student and Barry Scholar at the University of Oxford, studying history, and is working as an editorial intern at Harper's Magazine. Lacey Coffey Baby Name Consultant Lacey Coffey is a baby name consultant based in Illinois. With a lifelong interest in names, Lacey is influenced by her background in religious studies and linguistics. She started her social media account @softbabynames in 2023 as an outlet to share all of the name ideas, meaning, and combinations. She has since grown her following across Instagram and TikTok to nearly 100,000 followers, inspiring them and sharing her personal style of names which tend to be more classic names with a rich history and meaning and names that evoke that feeling of an old soul. Lacey has a bachelor’s degree in Religion and Intercultural Studies and a bachelor’s degree in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL). Zachary Rainey Ordained Minister Rev. Zachary B. Rainey is an ordained minister with over 40 years of ministry and pastoral practice, including over 10 years as a hospice chaplain. He is a graduate of Northpoint Bible College and a member of the General Council of the Assemblies of God. April Jordan Sustainability Specialist April Jordan is a Sustainability Specialist and the Founder of The Ethical Edit, a blog dedicated to making ethical fashion and lifestyle changes accessible by sharing easy-to-digest sustainability information and ethical and sustainable brand reviews. With over five years of experience in sustainability and over five years in the marketing and communications field, April is passionate about using her skills to make the world a better place. Christopher Thomas Metallurgist Christopher Thomas is a Metallurgist based in Birmingham, Alabama. With 16 years of experience working for Commercial Metals Company, Christopher specializes in designing modern infrastructure, metal recycling, fabrication, performance steel, and construction services. His company is responsible for creating high-end structures, from the AT&T Stadium in Dallas to the Pentagon. Christopher holds a BS in Metallurgical Engineering from the University of Alabama. Tara Blau Smollen Presentation & Acting Skills Coach Tara Blau Smollen is a Presentation & Acting Skills Coach based in Mill Valley, California. With over 35 years of professional and academic experience, Tara helps fellow coaches, entrepreneurs, and creatives become more comfortable speaking in front of an audience. She is a three-time Bay Area Theatre Critics Circle (BATCC) Award Nominee and a two-time Dean Good Award Recipient. She was an Associate Professor of Theater and Drama at SF State, Contra Costa College, and at Los Medanos College where she taught Beginning Acting and Theater History. Tara received her BA in Theater and English from the University of Wisconsin and her MFA in Theater and Acting from The National Theater Conservatory. Barry McDonough Professional Magician Barry McDonough is a Professional Magician based in Boston, Massachusetts. He is an experienced magician and entertainer, bringing excitement and fun to audiences of all ages. Barry performs for children's birthday parties, corporate gatherings, and a variety of other types of events. His work has been recognized by The Society of American Magicians (S.A.M.). Barry now runs a Magic School and Workshop to teach tricks and techniques to those eager to learn the art of magic from a professional. He received a BS in Engineering from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. He also received a JD from Suffolk University Law School in Boston. Juliana Pache Crossword Puzzle Expert Juliana Pache is a puzzle maker based in Brooklyn, NY. Juliana is passionate about Black diasporic legacies and creates puzzles that engage with Black popular culture. She founded Black Crossword, the premier destination for word gamers interested in Black culture and the diaspora. Black Crossword launched in 2023 and offers a free daily mini puzzle, with plans to launch standard-size puzzles under a subscription. There is also a book available for purchase that contains 100 mini-puzzles within it. Juliana has a BS in Media Studies and Production from Temple University and has previously worked in marketing and media for companies like Rolling Stone, VICE, and The FADER. Juliana and Black Crossword have been featured in the New York Times, BET, the Huffington Post, and Good Morning America. Mufti Samir Wahid Islam Expert Mufti Samir Wahid is an Islam expert and Imam based in Atlanta, Georgia. Around the age of 14, Mufti Samir memorized the entire Quran. He then enrolled in an 8-year course to earn a degree in Islamic Studies, graduating from the Alim Course in 2012 from Darul Uloom Canada. He then went on to study Iftaa at Darul Uloom Canada. In 2014, he returned to Atlanta after school and founded the Najam Institute, which has served as a school and resource to the community for over 10 years.  Mufti Samir is currently the CEO of the Islamic Institute of Atlanta, Najam Institute, Darul Arqam Institute, and Al Furqan Academy. Sarah Potter Witch, Tarot Reader, and Psychic Medium Sarah Potter is a professional witch, tarot reader, and psychic medium based in New York City, NY. Sarah writes quarterly tarotscopes for Bust Magazine and is the creator of the Cosmo Tarot deck for Cosmopolitan. She leads transformative Full Moon ceremonies and is a highly sought-after spiritual guide, working with private and corporate clients. She also has a Substack where she share weekly energy reports, Tarotscopes, and spells for her subscribers. She is passionate about helping people live life with joy and self-trust, following their intuition to make their dreams come true. Sarah is also the author of Sober Magic, a guide to using magical craft and tarot as tools in a sobriety journey. She has been featured in Forbes, Refinery29, InStyle, and more. She has a BFA in Studio Art and Art History. Danielle Bezalel Sex Educator Danielle Bezalel is a sex educator and podcaster. Danielle’s podcast, Sex Ed With DB, provides smart, science-backed sex education, delivering trusted insights from top experts on sex, sexuality, and pleasure since 2017. Sex Ed With DB is in the top 1.5% of podcasts, with over 350K downloads. Listen to it here: https://pod.link/1286811573  Danielle has been featured on Netflix, Bustle, Mashable, Pop Sugar, Self Magazine, and more. She has a Master of Public Health from Columbia University with expertise in both sexuality and sexual and reproductive health. She also has a Bachelor’s in Film and Media Studies from the University of California, Berkeley and a background in digital media and content creation. Donna Stellhorn Consulting Astrologer and Author Donna Stellhorn is an astrologer and feng shui expert based in Oceanside, CA. With over 30 years of experience in the field, Donna has expertise in Western astrology, Chinese astrology, tarot reading, numerology, and feng shui. She got her start writing a column on Feng Shui for the New Mexico Light and currently clocks nearly 1,000 hours of consultation time each year working with clients. Donna is also the author of 20 books on Western and Chinese astrology and feng shui, including Chinese Astrology: Life, Love and Luck in Twelve Animal Signs. Donna has lectured on feng shui and Chinese astrology to a variety of organizations and at conferences, including Warner Records, Western Digital, and the United Astrologer Conference in Chicago. She also sits on the board of the National Council for Geocosmic Research - San Diego chapter. Jemaree Jay Content Creator Jemaree Jay is a content creator based in Miami, Florida. Jemaree has been creating content since 2023 and specializes in viral social content that breaks down Gen Z identity, internet culture, race-based archetypes, and friend group dynamics. He describes his content as residing at the intersection of sociology, pop culture, and comedy. He shares his content on Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube @jemareejay, amassing over 70k followers and over 11.5 million likes on TikTok alone. Carmela Resuma, MPP Traveling Specialist Carmela is the Executive Director of FLYTE, a non-profit organization headquartered in Georgetown, Texas that empowers students living in underserved communities through transformative travel experiences. Carmela has a Masters in Public Policy Analysis from New York University and is passionate about youth empowerment, social impact, and traveling. A.J. Jacobs Crossword Puzzle Expert A.J. Jacobs is an Author, Journalist, and Crossword Puzzle Expert based in New York, New York. He is a human guinea pig who has written four New York Times bestsellers that combine memoir, science, humor and self-help. His book, “The Puzzler”, details why puzzles matter and describes his project to solve the most complicated puzzles that exist, including word-based and number-based puzzles, along with riddles. He is an editor at large at Esquire magazine, a commentator on NPR and a columnist for Mental Floss magazine. In addition to his books, Jacobs written for The New York Times, Entertainment Weekly, and New York magazine. He has appeared on Oprah, The Today Show, Good Morning America, CNN, The Dr. Oz Show, Conan and The Colbert Report. He has given several TED talks, including ones about living biblically, creating a one-world family, and living healthily. He is a periodic commentator on NPR’s Weekend Edition Saturday, writes a bi-weekly advice column for Esquire.com called “My Huddled Masses”, and is a columnist for the LinkedIn Influencers program. He received a BA in Philosophy and English from Brown University. Jessica Malerman Disney Travel Expert and Travel Advisor Jessica Malerman is a travel advisor and owner of Magic Travel Studio based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. With previous experience as a Walt Disney World Cast Member and working for the Disney Cruise Line, Jessica specializes in creating memorable Disney experiences and vacations that are also a great investment. In 2024, Jessica won the TravelAge West Trendsetter Award for Best Group Booking Effort. She has been featured on Good Morning America, USA Today, TravelAge West, Travel & Leisure, ABC, CNBC, People, US Weekly, Forbes, Los Angeles Times, and more. Jessica has a Bachelor’s degree in Communication Arts and Sciences from Penn State University. Idris Abdul-Zahir Imam and Islam Expert Idris Abdul-Zahir is a spiritual leader, civic innovator, and IT executive based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He currently serves as the Resident Imam and Board Chair of Masjidullah: The Center for Human Excellence, where he has led one of the city’s most active and civically engaged Muslim congregations for over five years. Prior to that, he served as Assistant Imam for two years. Appointed in 2024 to Philadelphia’s first-ever Commission on Muslim Engagement and to Governor Josh Shapiro’s Advisory Commission for African American Affairs, Idris plays a key role in shaping inclusive policy and civic engagement across the state. In the public sector, Idris brings nearly two decades of experience in technology leadership. As Deputy Chief Information Officer, he oversees enterprise IT operations, including service strategy and communications infrastructure, with a focus on equitable digital transformation. Idris Abdul-Zahir is committed to transforming systems, narratives, and lives through faith, service, and inclusive leadership. Dan Bodner Transitional Shelter & Homelessness Expert Dan Bodner is a Transitional Shelter & Homelessness Expert and the CEO & Founder of QuickHaven Transitional Shelters. With over 20 years of experience, he specializes in executive leadership, product development, and innovation, which have helped him develop modular tiny homes to improve the lives of those affected by homelessness. Dan earned a BA from Vassar College and an MS from the University of Texas at Austin. Melissa Newman Social Media Strategist & Content Developer Melissa Newman is a Social Media Strategist & Content Developer based in Bristol, Pennsylvania. With six years of experience, she specializes in social media strategy, content development, and community management. Melissa earned an MS in Digital Innovation in Marketing from the Fox School of Business at Temple University and a BS from Temple University. She also holds certifications from Facebook, Google Analytics, Hootsuite, and HubSpot Academy. Melissa has won awards for her social media campaigns, including the Jesse H. Neal Award for Best Use of Social Media, a Hermes Creative Award, and an Azbee Award for Best Social Media Campaign. Alvaro Mendoza, PhD Metallurgist Alvaro Mendoza, Ph.D., is a Metallurgist and the Owner of Mendoza Metallurgy in Portland, Oregon. With over 15 years of professional and research experience, Dr. Mendoza has worked in the aerospace industry in forging, casting, metal-making, and additive manufacturing primarily with nickel-based superalloys, titanium and steels. He currently runs a metallurgical consulting and education business that focuses on providing technical expertise to businesses of any size. He was recently featured on a podcast about why metallurgy matters. Dr. Mendoza received his B.S. and M.S. and Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineering, focus on Metallurgy from the University of Florida. Dr. Jeffrey S. Harmon Firearms Instructor Dr. Jeffrey S. Harmon is a Firearms Instructor based in Southern New Jersey. He is the Owner and Chief Operating Officer of Ironsights Academy, a firearms education & training organization that he launched to continue his love of teaching and learning. Dr. Harmon is a higher education educator with over 20 years of experience who blended his passion for teaching with shooting sports as he launched Ironsights Academy: Firearms Education & Training.  Dr. Harmon is an NRA Certified Instructor in Pistol, Rifle, Shotgun, Personal Protection Inside & Outside the Home, Concealed Carry Weapons, Defensive Pistol, and a certified Chief Range Safety Officer.  Dr. Harmon is also certified by the American College of Surgeons to teach Stop the Bleed courses. Timothy Huynh Rubik’s Cube Artist Timothy Huynh is a Rubik’s Cube Artist based in Tampa, Florida. Timothy has been solving Rubik's Cubes professionally since 2016 and became a Guinness World Record Holder with advanced Rubik's cube-solving skills. Timothy has a follower base of over 8.6 million YouTube subscribers and 124k followers on Instagram. Internet celebrities including David Dobrik and Simu Liu have sung his praises, and Pixar has deemed his work "incredible." Kyle Thomas Astrologer Kyle Thomas is a globally recognized pop culture astrologer based in Los Angeles, California. He is the official Resident Astrologer for PEOPLE Magazine. With over a decade of professional experience, he works as a professional astrologer, celebrity life coach, and author. He is known for his cosmic guidance for celebrities, business executives, and prominent influencers. His work harnesses the power of the stars in regards to entertainment lifestyle and trends affecting people worldwide. He has been featured on Access Hollywood, E! Entertainment, NBC, ABC, and CBS television, Good Morning America, TMZ, the TODAY show, Cosmopolitan Magazine, Entertainment Weekly, the New York Post, Page Six, Hulu, Seventeen Magazine, Bustle, Elite Daily, the Daily Mail, Marie Claire, VICE, Newsweek, the Economic Times, and more. Currently, he is the official astrologer for @Horoscopes + @Horo.ScopesDaily. Kyle received two Bachelor of Arts for Psychology and English from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and integrates these degrees into his growing research in psychology, personality, and the human condition. Roi Bracha Hebrew Teacher Roi Bracha is a Hebrew teacher and the founder of Hebreways, a global Hebrew-learning community with over 150,000 followers on social media. He helps students around the world speak, read, and connect with Hebrew through daily videos, live classes, and interactive lessons. Roi teaches both modern conversational Hebrew and Biblical basics, with a focus on making the language fun, clear, and practical for all levels — especially beginners and those preparing for Aliyah or travel to Israel. Lexi Amoriello Movie and Film Content Creator Lexi Amoriello is a writer, editor, and film content creator, as well as the founder of Movie Recs By Lex, where she specializes in personalized movie recommendations. Lexi has provided customized movie recommendations to over 4,000 people, based on their four favorite films on Letterboxd. She also reviews new releases, does deep dives about classic films, and creates a variety of film-related content. She studied screenwriting at the University of the Arts and earned a BA in English with a concentration in writing and a minor in film studies from William Paterson University. She also founded the New Jersey Film Critics Circle and was nominated for a Webby Award in 2025. Matthew Bourie Casino Gambling and Video Poker Expert Matthew Bourie is a casino gambling and video poker expert based in Hollywood, Florida. With over 15 years of experience, Matthew is part of the father-son duo known as The JackPot Gents and is the co-author of the American Casino Guide Book. The American Casino Guide Book has been published annually since 1992 and continues to be published digitally on the American Casino Guide Book site. It was the #1 bestselling book in the US on casino gambling and travel. Matthew is a reliable source for valuable information about casinos and gambling, including good blackjack strategies, best craps bets, slot machine strategies, video poker, and more. He has been writing about casinos for more than 12 years and co-hosts the YouTube channel The Jackpot Gents which has over 55 million views and nearly 210k followers. Billy Lesnak Trading Card & Memorabilia Expert Billy Lesnak is a trading card and memorabilia expert based in Monroeville, Pennsylvania. As a lifelong collector with almost 10 years of industry experience, Billy is a passionate professional in the collectibles industry, combining a deep love for sports, trading cards, and memorabilia with expertise in marketing, event management, and community engagement. He has worked hands-on with top brands like Topps, Upper Deck, Panini America, eBay, and Fanatics, producing high-impact experiences and campaigns that connect collectors, athletes, and fans. He has traveled across the country attending conferences and trading card shows, including the National Sports Collectors Convention, Fanatics Fest NYC, Upper Deck's Certified Diamond Dealer Conferences, and industry events for Topps and Panini. Billy has worked directly with dozens of professional athletes across the NHL, NFL, and MLB, creating thousands of pieces of memorabilia. He has been interviewed by The New York Times and appeared as a guest on multiple radio shows, including NPR, as a trading card expert. Additionally, he serves as an elector for the Trading Card Hall of Fame. Murisa Harba Acting Coach & Dance Instructor Murisa Harba is an Acting Coach, Dance Instructor, and the Artistic Director & Owner of About the Works Actors Studio and Take My Lead LA. With over 13 years of experience, she specializes in private ballroom dancing lessons and encouraging actors to creatively tell stories. Murisa holds a BFA in Theatre and a Minor in Dance from Boston University’s College of Fine Arts. Chelsea Hunersen Social Media Expert Chelsea Hunersen is a Social Media Expert and leads the Social Media team at Qualtrics in the Greater Salt Lake City Area. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in social media and content development. She has been published in TheMuse, The HubSpot Blog, and HuffPost. She earned her MS in Integrated Marketing Communications from Northwestern University and her BA from the University of Michigan. She also holds a HubSpot Inbound Marketing Certification. Our Family Plays Games Board Game Experts Our Family Plays Games, LLC is a family-owned business based in Omaha, Nebraska. Launched in 2018, their mission is to promote growth and awareness of the modern board game hobby and bring more BIPOCs and families into the board game community. In June 2020 they were featured on Good Morning America and have since been featured on NBC News Online, Senet Magazine (UK), Ligadas.com (Brazil), a variety of YouTube programs, podcasts, and on local television. In January of 2022, they launched a second program on their channel, called OFPG Voices to highlight other underrepresented voices in the hobby. In addition, they make special appearances at board game conventions all around the country and work with board game publishers from around the world. Joe Perez Aquatic and Terrarium Specialist Joe Perez is an Aquatic and Terrarium Specialist and the Manager of the Chlorophyll Corner, based in Tempe, Arizona. Joe has been part of the aquatic and reptile industry and hobby for almost 30 years. His specialty is in creating planted aquariums and full-setup terrariums. The Chlorophyll Corner started as a small family plant store and has grown to a full-planted aquarium shop with an Instagram following of over 82,000 people. Cameron Diamond Christian Theology Expert Cameron Diamond is a Christian Theology Expert based in Jonesville, Florida. With 16 years of experience in the Christian ministry, Cameron has held various ministry positions and is currently a Pastor and Worship Leader at Jonesville Baptist Church. He has served as a Pastor for students for 10 years. He hosts a Christian faith podcast called Innerlight Discipleship. He is an Outpost Director for Stand to Reason, an apologetics ministry that encourages discipleship and relational evangelism through Socratic reason. He also serves as an Adjunct Professor at Santa Fe College in Gainesville, Florida. He has an MA in Christian Studies and a BA in Music from the Baptist College of Florida. Currently, he is pursuing his Doctorate of Ministry in Theologies and Apologetics from Liberty University. Kevin Bentley Puzzlemaking Expert Kevin Bentley is a puzzle maker and designer of Komino Puzzles based in England. In 2016, Kevin invented Komino puzzles, which are logic puzzles with a unique set of logical rules inspired by domino pieces and jigsaw puzzles. He has created over 30 different designs of Komino puzzles, 12 of which are presented in his first book of 200 puzzles called Komino Puzzles, published in 2018. Kevin has had a lifelong interest in solving all kinds of puzzles, including Rubik’s cube and Sudoku, and is a computer programmer with over 30 years of experience. Miles Sadowski Aquarium Expert Miles Sadowski is an Aquarium Expert based in Columbus, Georgia. With a passion for aquariums that began at the age of 7, Miles founded Sadowski Aquatic Services, LLC in 2019. He specializes in fabricating and maintaining aquariums, offers quarantine services and takes aquarium livestock orders. He created a 3,000-gallon aquarium for the Orlando Airport and has worked with celebrity clients like Shaquille O’Neal. Reem Edan Comedian, Writer and Content Creator Reem Edan is a comedian, writer and content creator based in Los Angeles, CA. Reem has captivated audiences globally, making appearances on: The Stand Up Sketch Show, SiriusXM, The Netflix is A Joke Festival, Laugh After Dark, Elizabeth Banks’ WhoHaha, and in her upcoming Dry Bar comedy special. She’s brought audiences to tears at renowned comedy clubs and venues across the globe, while simultaneously building an online presence of over 300k followers, and amassing tens of millions of views. Previously, Reem worked at Paramount Pictures, Walt Disney Studios, and STX Entertainment in marketing, and has participated in renowned industry programs like: the NBC Late Night Writing Program, Warner Bros/Rooster Teeth Content Creator Program, and the MGM Writing Program. She was also a writer on the Disney TV Discovers Showcase, penned synopses for Netflix, and even wrote jokes for popular social media pages like Scooby Doo and Tom & Jerry. Reem has a degree in Marketing from the University of Denver. Max Hockley Numismatics and Precious Metals Expert Max Hockley is a numismatics expert based in New York City. With over 15 years of experience collecting coins, he is the creator of the Silverpicker YouTube channel, where he informs, educates, and entertains people about numismatics, precious metals stacking, and personal finance. His channel has over 238K subscribers on YouTube. Max has been creating content on YouTube since 2011, and frequently teaches his subscribers about making money from buying precious metals and coins. He received a BA in Philosophy and Chinese and an MBA from Emory University. Sherri Miller Seamstress & Costume Designer Sherri Miller is a Seamstress, Costume Designer, and the Owner of The Scarlett Seam. With more than eight years of experience, she specializes in wedding gown alterations and has extensive knowledge in pattern-making. Sherri received an Associate of Science in Costume Design from Chaffey College. Shelby Devlin, MA Sex & Intimacy Coach Shelby Devlin is a Sex & Intimacy Coach based in San Francisco, California. She has over 7 years of experience guiding individuals and couples in deepening their capacity for intimacy and pleasure. Shelby specializes in BDSM therapy, D/s, and fetish exploration. She earned an MA in Sexuality Studies from San Francisco State University and is certified in the Somatic Method, an experiential therapy modality. Shelby is also a certified massage therapist (CMT) and an associate practitioner of Ortho bionomy. She has a 5-star coaching rating. Michiko Takatani Sexual Health and Yoga Specialist Michiko Takatani is a Sexual Health, Yoga & Tantra Specialist and the Founder of Solar Tantra School. With nearly 20 years of experience, she specializes in a combination of Kundalini yoga and Tantra. She holds a Kundalini Yoga Certification from the Kundalini Research Institute. Additionally, her Solar Tantra School in New York has a 5-star rating. Aaron Justis Cannabis Expert Aaron Justis is a Cannabis Expert and the President of Buds & Roses dispensary based in Los Angeles, CA. Buds & Roses is a premier Los Angeles cannabis retailer serving customers and the LA community since 2006. Since 2010, Aaron and the Buds & Roses team have been the proud recipients of 26 High Times Medical Cannabis Cup awards, including multiple first-place victories, solidifying their reputation as a top provider of premium cannabis products. As a recognized thought leader in the cannabis industry, Aaron has played a pivotal advocacy role in the Cannabis community. His thought leadership has attracted attention from mainstream media, including features and profiles in notable outlets such as CNN and Variety. David Martinez Professional Magician David Martinez is a Magician based in San Jose, CA. David has over 20 years of experience and has performed throughout Northern California at weddings, private parties, team-building events, and more. He has notably performed for some of the biggest companies in the world, including Apple, Google, Facebook, and Uber. David previously served as President of the Silicon Valley Chapter of the International Brotherhood of Magicians and has received awards for Close-Up, Walk-Around, and Stage performances. In 2023, he co-authored Amaze and Delight: Secrets to Creating Magic in Business, aimed at helping individuals and organizations nurture healthy and happy business cultures. Ty Jackson Film Producer Ty Jackson is a Film Producer based in New York, New York. He has over a decade of experience in the film, financial services, insurance, and real estate industries. Ty has held roles as a producer, actor, and screenwriter. He is the CEO of Pineal Visions Productions, where he produces films and finds stories worth telling. Ty isn’t just a film producer, he’s a "life producer". Ty is a motivational speaker who inspires people to go produce the life they’ve been dreaming of. He is an Army veteran and was an Information Technology Specialist in the Army for over 4 years. He studied acting and filmmaking at the New York Film Academy, and is currently studying psychology at American Military University. Ryan Jares Geography, Flags, and Global Travel Content Creator Ryan Jares is a geography, flags, and global travel content creator based in North Carolina. With over a year of experience creating content as Enchanted Escapes on social media, he is known for creating a variety of geography, travel, and aviation content. Ryan has built a following of over 120k followers on TikTok and 28k followers on Instagram. He has a master’s in business administration. Susan Levitt Tarot Card Reader Susan Levitt is a professional tarot card reader, astrologer, and feng shui consultant based in San Francisco, California since 1986. Susan is the author of five books that are published in several languages including Introduction To Tarot and Taoist Astrology. She posts tarot reading updates on Facebook, on Twitter @tarot_tweet, and her lunar blog. Her work has been featured on CNN and she was voted “Best Astrologer” by SF Weekly in San Francisco. Leela Fazzuoli & Daniele Cavallo Professional Latin Dance Instructors Daniele Cavallo and Leela Fazzuoli are Professional Latin Dance Instructors and the Co-Founders of Cavallo Dance AZ, a dance studio based in Phoenix, Arizona. With more than 20 years of experience each, they specialize in Latin dances, dance performances, and competition dance. They have expertise in Salsa and Bachata, Argentine Tango, Cha Cha, Samba, Rumba, Paso Doble, and Jive. Amiccio Social Events Host Amiccio is a Social Events organization based in New York, New York. Amiccio hosts social events to help people make new connections, whether they are new to the city, or just wish to expand beyond their existing social network. Amiccio’s efforts focus on connecting singles and new friends by hosting socials, dance classes, and speed dating events. Jaclyn Nasland Social Media Expert Jaclyn Nasland is a Social Media Expert based in San Diego, California. She works as a Marketing Specialist at Prem, a PR & Social Media Marketing firm. Prem elevates brands through meaningful content & authentic communication. Previously, Jaclyn served as Director of Social Media at Ovello, a female-owned & operated team of remote Executive Assistants and Social Media Managers who are passionate about helping entrepreneurs grow their personal businesses to maximum potential. With 4 years of social media experience, she specializes in helping her clients create a brand, a holistic strategy, and growth through various social media platforms. Kemar & DeAnne Johnson Relationship Experts Kemar & DeAnne Johnson are Relationship Experts and Hosts of the “It’s Relational Podcast”. They specialize in effective communication and thorough comprehension as well as maintaining a healthy intimate relationship. They are high school sweethearts who have been married for over eight years and together for over 13 years. They have co-authored an Ebook called “The Top 25 Tips to Have a Beautiful Long Lasting Relationship.” They are also proud Jamaicans who value their roots, upbringing, and culture very much! They both attended Herbert H. Lehman High School and CUNY New York City College of Technology. Alisa Thorp Jewelry Design & Ethical Gemstone Expert Alisa Thorp is a Jewelry Design & Ethical Gemstone Expert and the Co-Founder of Mercurius Jewelry. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in responsibly-sourced fine jewelry. She holds a BS in Environmental Science from Columbia University and is studying gemology at the Gemological Institute of America (GIA). Mark Schneider Firearms Instructor Mark Schneider is a Firearms Instructor based in Denver, Colorado. His journey into the world of firearms, novice gunsmithing, shooting, and tactics began nearly two decades ago. Over the course of his career, he has amassed over 18 years of firearms instruction experience and 10 years of security experience, predominantly in the realm of armed uniformed security. Mark has run a licensed security company and holds a license as an armed security guard with the City & County of Denver. Mark holds NRA certifications and has held multiple roles, including NRA Certified Pistol Instructor, NRA Inside The Home Protection Instructor, NRA Outside The Home Protection Instructor, NRA Refuse to Be a Victim Instructor, and NRA Chief Range Safety Officer. Mark’s extensive training history includes a wide array of tactical and security courses, encompassing advanced pistol, rifle, and shotgun training, close-quarter combat, ambushing tactics, and more. Marc Freccero Gig Economy Expert and YouTuber Marc Freccero is a Gig Economy Expert and YouTuber based in Los Angeles, CA. After becoming a rideshare driver, he fell in love with driving and started his YouTube channel @BuckLiving to make content to help out other rideshare drivers. Marc shares optimization tips, news, and education based on the rapidly changing rideshare landscape. He is well-versed in Uber, Lyft, Uber Eats, Doordash, Waymo, and more. Marc also provides advice to freelancers on exploring the gig economy and a variety of side hustles. Sixu Chen Life, Career, and Relationship Coach Sixu Chen is a career and relationship coach, as well as an accomplished interior designer, based in Bellevue, Washington. She is the founder of SCcoaching Group, launched in 2020, and is a certified coach through the Life Purpose Institute. Sixu specializes in guiding young professionals and multi-talented individuals through transformative self-discovery journeys to design fulfilling career paths. She is the creator of the CONFIDENT Career Creation program, specifically designed to help creative minds find clarity, confidence, and direction in their professional lives. In her relationship coaching, Sixu focuses on strengthening communication skills to build deeper, more meaningful connections. She also fosters a community of growth-minded professionals by hosting Coach Connect, a weekly networking event on zoom that brings coaches together to collaborate, share, and support each other. Alongside her coaching work, Sixu channels her creativity into interior design, partnering with Beth Bloom Designs as an independent contractor. She earned her Bachelor of Arts in Interior Design from the California College of the Arts. Kelly Ferguson Psychic Medium and Shamanic Healer Kelly Ferguson is a respected Psychic Medium, Shamanic Healer, and Empowerment Coach based in Toronto, Canada. She is renowned for her highly accurate psychic and mediumship readings and has conducted thousands of private and group events. Her readings have earned her hundreds of 5-star reviews, and she was ranked the #1 Psychic on The Best of Toronto website for three years in a row. A lifelong natural psychic medium, Kelly mastered her abilities through years of self-guided exploration and firsthand experience with countless modalities, giving her unique insight into what truly works. As the founder of the Intuitive Empowerment Academy, Kelly specializes in helping others develop and enhance their intuitive abilities. Her insightful Psychic Quiz helps people identify their unique psychic strengths, and her acclaimed courses have guided hundreds of students to enhance and master their abilities, many of whom have gone on to become professional psychic mediums. Avrohom Rapoport Rabbi and Judaism Expert Avrohom Rapoport is a Rabbi and Jewish Content Creator based in New Jersey. Known as @RabbiRaps online and dubbed "The TikTok Rabbi", Avrohom creates Jewish content designed to educate, entertain, and inspire over 400k followers across Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube. His upbeat, humorous, and engaging style brings meaning and inspiration to the many who follow him. Avrohom also serves as the Director of Chabad at The Shore, which provides educational and social programming to help foster a deeper Jewish identity. Avrohom studied Hasidic philosophy at the United Lubavitcher Yeshivah in Brooklyn, New York. Jonathan Wells Games Expert Jonathan Wells is a games expert and the founder of Dig the Games. The Wells family founded Dig The Games as a way to share the joys of playing games and friendly competition with a wider audience. They share group games, party games, classroom games, board games, and more. Dig The Games has grown a global online community of over 142k followers with over 18 million views, inspiring families and groups to come together and create memorable, fun experiences. Reagan Conley Therian and Furry Reagan "Rory" Conley is a therian, furry and mask shop owner based in Buffalo, NY. Rory has known he was a therian for most of his life and began making therian-style masks in 2023. Rory’s masks are one-of-a-kind and completely hand sculpted. Rory shares a variety of therian and furry content on his YouTube Channel, BirdyDogs, to his community of over 71k followers, including instructional therianthropy content and mask making tutorials. Rory’s theriotypes are a wolf, mountain lion, and a prehistoric animal called a cameroceras. Triple S Games Game Experts Triple S Games, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is owned by Jim, who has been teaching and developing games since 2004. The company’s YouTube channel, launched in 2014, is known for concise “how to play” videos covering the rules of over 1,000 games—and counting. Their content spans board games, card games, parlor games, puzzles, and video games, with the most popular videos translated into 11 languages. In addition to instruction, Triple S Games has designed and published original titles and produces checkered board variations for chess-based gameplay. Brittney Crabb Paranormal and Horror Content Creator Brittney Crabb is a paranormal and horror content creator based in Toronto, Ontario. With over 17 years of experience creating content, Brittney shares all things paranormal and horror, including haunted places, urban legends, ghost stories, and more. Brittney has over 580k followers with over 149 million views on her YouTube channel @BrittneyCrabb, where her lifelong passion for the paranormal and video creation shines through. She is also a TV host, TV personality, and interviewer with vast experience in the entertainment industry and interviewing celebrities at premieres and other events. Emchompite Pokémon Gaming and Collectibles Expert Emchompite is a Pokémon gaming and collectibles expert. As a lifelong Pokémon trainer and hobbyist collector, Em has committed herself to creating creative, engaging, and informative content about the Pokémon card collecting space since 2022. She also competes in the competitive Trading Card Game, traveling across the United States to play. She aims to help teach others how to play and get involved in the game as the next step to collecting. Em has over 38k followers across Instagram and X, and is known for her fun, informational, and competitive Pokémon Card content. In addition, she was invited by The Pokémon Company International as a Creator to the North American International and World Championships in 2025. Robuilds Roblox Expert Robuilds is a Roblox expert based in Southern California. Robuilds has been creating Roblox content since the summer of 2020 and has been creating social media content since 2016. Her Roblox content primarily focuses on making creative Roblox movies in Welcome to Bloxburg, or playing games like Dress to Impress and 99 Nights in the Forest. She has an Associate’s degree in Arts and will graduate with her Bachelor’s degree in Multimedia in Spring 2026. Allyson Edwards World Traveler & International Consultant Allyson Edwards graduated from Stanford University with a BA in International Relations. Afterwards, she went on to facilitate International partnerships with agencies in over twenty countries, and has consulted for companies in industries across education, fintech, and retail. William Orrock Professional Dancer & Instructor William Orrock is a Professional Dancer, Instructor, Group Fitness Instructor, and the Owner of We Evolve Dance. With more than 22 years of experience, he specializes in performance, social dancing instruction, competitive dance preparation, and wedding choreography. William holds a Bachelor's degree in Contemporary Dance with a minor in Choreography from Universidad Las Americas-Chile and a second minor in Acting from Foothill College Acting Conservatory. He is also a national champion in Latin American Dancing, a former dancer for Dancing with the Stars Chile, and a certified judge for ballroom competitions. Joanna Gerard Psychic, Astrologer, & Entertainer Joanna Gerard is a Psychic, Astrologer, & Entertainer with over 15 years of professional experience in the field. She specializes in psychic readings and has taught astrology and psychic development classes. As an entrepreneur and writer, she has created her own unique set of Astrology Oracle cards, the Praying Mantis Oracle Deck. Joanna conducts psychic readings for people all over the world and has specific experience working with entrepreneurs and business owners. Her media appearances include interviews with KUSI San Diego and FOX 5 AM News. She has degrees in Mass Communications and Education. Ken Colby Saltwater Aquarist Ken Colby is a Saltwater Aquarist and the Owner of High Tide Aquatics based in Oakland, California. With over 30 years of experience, Ken is the only local fish store owner in the United States that is certified by Humble Fish, the marine disease expert forum, as a Quarantined Fish Vendor. Ken creates in-person and online educational programming in partnership with other marine science and biology professionals. He also launched High Tide Aquatics’ YouTube channel in 2023, sharing recordings of  events he’s hosted as well as "how-to" videos covering everything from coral fragging to kalkwasser dosing. He's been a member of the Bay Area Reefers club for over 19 years. Michelle Cousins Wedding and Event Planner Michelle Cousins is a Wedding and Event Planner based in Salt Lake City, Utah. She is the Founder of Michelle Leo Events, an award-winning event design and planning firm specializing in local and destination events. Founded in 2010, Michelle Leo Events has planned over 2,000+ weddings and events across four states and multiple five-star resorts and luxury venues. With locations in Utah and a satellite branch in Dallas, Texas, Michelle Leo Events continues to serve clients around the globe with unparalleled dedication and creativity. Michelle tailors each event to reflect her clients’ unique tastes, styles, and personalities. She collaborates closely with clients, ensuring that every celebration is a true expression of their vision. Michelle and her team have earned widespread recognition, being named one of the Top Wedding Planning Firms in the U.S. by VOGUE, BRIDES, and Martha Stewart Weddings. Her designs have been featured in prestigious publications such as The New York Times, Huffington Post, Vogue, Grace Ormonde, Martha Stewart, Over the Moon, and Style Me Pretty. Additionally, Michelle Leo Events has earned 18 Best of State awards as Utah’s Best Event Planner and Best Bridal Services Provider. Klarissa Beckstead Film Studies and Analysis Expert Klarissa Beckstead is a film studies and analysis expert and content creator. As a lifelong movie lover, Klarissa started sharing on the Instagram account @iveseenthatone in 2024. There she talks all things movies and shares her film analysis and reviews, fun movie facts, and more. Klarissa has a journal debuting in August of 2025 featuring the ultimate watchlist of 100 movie recommendations, and a podcast coming later in 2025 as well. She has also developed a 24-week film studies curriculum in her role at a residential treatment center for teens, combining her passion for education and film. She is currently attending Southern Utah University pursuing a degree in education, with a minor in film studies. Eriel Rivera Pokémon Expert Eriel Rivera is a Pokémon expert. He is the creator of Munching Orange, a popular Pokémon-focused YouTube channel with 1.4 million subscribers. The channel focuses on Pokémon news, theories, gameplay, and more. He has been producing Pokémon video content on YouTube for 15 years and is a lifelong fan of the franchise. As a prominent figure in the Pokémon fandom and community, Eriel has also amassed 68K followers on Twitch, 85K on X, and 31K on Instagram. Ryan Quinlan Coin Collector and Content Creator Ryan Quinlan is a coin collector and content creator based in Cary, North Carolina. With over 10 years of experience, Ryan shares content on coin collecting, coin roll hunting, silver stacking, and metal detecting on social media. His YouTube channel @QuinsCoins boasts over 130k subscribers and nearly 28 million views, with some of his top series include "Coin Roll Hunting Competitions", "Coin Quest", and "Detecting with Ryan". Ryan has a bachelor’s of engineering in Computer Science from the University of Michigan. John Jess Dog Breeder John Jess is a Dog Breeder and the Founder of Central Illinois Doodles, a family business located in Arthur, Illinois. He specializes in breeding Goldendoodles and Bernedoodles. Central Illinois Doodles has been named one of the Top 10 Bernedoodle breeders in the United States by Bubbly Pet and Pupvine. They’ve also been named one of the best Goldendoodle breeders by Trending Breeds and Devoted to Dog. Trevor Maclise Locksmith Trevor Maclise is a Locksmith and the Owner of Infinity Key Locksmith in San Diego, California. Trevor has over five years of experience in the industry. He specializes in working with residential doors, including door and frame replacements, door hardware installation, multi-point locks, and mortise locks. Cuong Nguyen Music Teacher Cuong Nguyen is a Music Teacher and the Co-Owner of both OC Musica and the Huntington Beach School of Music. He has been teaching music for over 45 years and has extensive knowledge in music teaching pedagogy. He and his team of over 20 professional instructors specialize in teaching piano, voice, guitar, violin, brass, and woodwind instruments. Cuong is the 1984 winner of the Yoshiro Irino Memorial Prize in Composition. He received his Bachelor of Music with Honors from the Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand. Stephanie Jeret Speech-Language Pathologist Stephanie Jeret is a Speech-Language Pathologist based in Northeastern Illinois. She works with children who stutter, have receptive/expressive language difficulties, and have articulation disorders/delays. She also works with adults who present with dysarthria, apraxia, aphasia, executive function disorder, and stuttering. She is certified by the American Speech-Language and Hearing Association (ASHA) and received their ACE Award for excellence in continuing education. She is also PROMPT Bridge Trained, Lidcombe Trained, and Lee Silverman Voice Therapy Certified. Stephanie holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Queens College and a Master of Science in Speech-Language Pathology from Brooklyn College. Derek Pederson Board Game Expert Derek Pederson is a Board Game Expert, Content Creator, and Reviewer. He is the creator of Woosung Boardgames, a multimedia board game company. Through Woosung Boardgame's social media accounts, he creates all sorts of board game content, including game reviews, previews, unboxings, recommendations, and more! He has over 257K followers on Instagram and over 248K followers on TikTok. He received a BS in Social Work from Augsburg University. Roslyn Teng Pet Industry Entrepreneur Roslyn Teng is a Pet Fashion Brand Owner. She is the founder of Furry Muse, a premium pet accessories brand that blends fashion-forward design with high-performance functionality. Inspired by cultural trends, Furry Muse offers innovative products that are durable yet elegant, enhancing everyday adventures for pets and their owners. Roslyn is also a product and growth marketing expert and a two-time entrepreneur passionate about go-to-market strategies, product development and design, and marketing. She has a Master of Business Administration from INSEAD and a BA in Psychology & Economics from Yale University-National University of Singapore. As a pet parent of three, her pets fuel her passion for creating exceptional products. Andrea Vicunia Actress, Writer and Stand-Up Comedian Andrea Vicunia is an actress, writer, and stand-up comedian based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 15 years in the entertainment industry, some of Andrea’s credits include her roles in Portrait Haus and Libres. In addition to acting, Andrea wrote a comedy series called Stereotyped that released on Amazon Prime and won her the AT&T’s Best Underrepresented Filmmaker Award in 2018. She is a scholarship recipient from the Groundlings School and was a mentee in the Chicago “Women in Comedy Cohort”. Andrea has appeared on BuzzFeed, Amazon Prime Video, Who Haha, and backstage. She is also passionate about storytelling and has volunteered as a mentor for Young Storytellers since 2018. Erin Lofton Travel Agency Owner Erin Lofton is a travel agent and the owner of The Traveling Counselor based in Atlanta, Georgia. With over 6 years of experience, Erin specializes in custom travel plans, cruises, and destination weddings, and is also a Dubai expert. She launched The Traveling Counselor in 2021 and prides herself on providing excellent, personalized customer service. To date she has planned over 2500 trips for over 1,385 happy customers. Rebecca Lane Spiritual Seeker and Intuitive Rebecca Lane is a Spiritual Seeker, Intuitive, and Dream Interpreter. Rebecca is the founder of Celestial Essence, where she works with individuals to help them explore their past lives and hidden history, to help them find clarity, align their energy, and embrace their path. She taps into deeper wisdom through Intuitive dowsing and is well-versed in intuitive energy work and symbolism. She shares intuitive dowsing sessions and other spiritual insights on her growing social media platform to a community of over 15,000 people. Ighodalo Oribhabor Nurse and Nursing Content Creator Ighodalo Oribhabor, known as Odalo Oris on social media, is a Registered Nurse and content creator based in Houston, Texas. With over 2 years of experience in the nursing field, Odalo currently works in a step-down ICU trauma unit. He is passionate about nursing and storytelling, documenting his nursing experiences online to a community of over 80k followers across Instagram, TikTok, and Facebook. He aims to help people understand what nursing is like, why we need more nurses, and show that even though it’s hard, it’s something anyone can pursue. Odalo first received an Associate Degree in Nursing, then later received a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree from the University of Houston - Downtown. Danya Ruttenberg Rabbi and Judaism Expert Rabbi Danya Ruttenberg is an award-winning author of eight books, a highly sought-after keynote speaker and lecturer, was named by Newsweek and The Daily Beast as one of "ten rabbis to watch," was named a "faith leader to watch" by the Center for American Progress, and has been a Sunday Washington Post crossword clue (83 Down). She has written for outlets like The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Atlantic, Newsweek, and Time, and has been featured on NPR, the Today Show, USA Today, CNN, MTV News, and more. She is the founder of Life is a Sacred Text, a project bringing liberation-forward nourishment for the heart, soul, and noggin for folks of any and no spiritual or religious inclination, filled with essays, text studies, guided discussions, and more, with a vibrant community of over 35,000 people. Benjimin Minecraft Content Creator Benjimin is a Minecraft content creator. On his channels, he builds everything from simple survival bases to full maps and mega projects. He has built an online community of fellow Minecraft enthusiasts, with over 15K subscribers on YouTube, over 33K followers on Instagram, over 33K followers on TikTok, and a passionate base on Twitch. On his Patreon, he provides maps, guides, and other creative Minecraft instructional projects to over 11K members. Joseph Yoo Pastor and Christianity Expert Joseph Yoo is a Priest and Christianity expert based in Pearland, Texas. Joseph became ordained as a priest in 2021 and now serves as the head priest and planter of Mosaic Episcopal Church in Pearland. Joseph’s church operates with the credo that everybody has a real place at the table there, and they seek to welcome everyone, no matter where they are on their spiritual journey. He has built a thriving online community on social media, where he shares stories of faith, life, and everything in between. His Instagram page has over 200K followers, and his TikTok has over 160K. He also publishes his musings on his Substack, “Off the Collar”. He is also the author of “When the Saints Go Flying In: Stories About Faith, Life, and Everything in Between”. Jeannie McElroy Canine Enthusiast & Breeder of Champion European Boxers Jeannie McElroy is a Canine Enthusiast & Breeder of Champion European Boxers under the kennel name Big Mac Boxers. With over 25 years of experience, she specializes in training, working, showing, and titling her dogs in many different types of ring sports. Jeannie is an AKC Evaluator and titles therapy dogs for Therapy Pets Unlimited. She is also a member of the AKC Bred with Heart, Greater Cincinnati Boxer Club, and US-BOX Working Boxer Association. She is passionate about the breed as she adores rearing the next generation through selectively breeding only health-tested dogs from pedigrees known to have quality genetics. Joseph R. Villarreal, G.G. (GIA) Jeweler Joseph Villarreal is a Gemologist and President of Villarreal Diamonds and Fine Jewelry based in Austin, Texas. With over 36 years of industry experience, Joseph and his team specialize in custom jewelry design, diamond sales, and consignment jewelry for private clientele. Joseph is a Graduate Gemologist from GIA (Gemological Institute of America) with additional certifications in Diamond Grading and Gem Identification. Villarreal is also a member of Jewelers of America and is a Jewelers of America Certified Senior Management Professional. Scott Thompson Firearms Instructor Scott Thompson is a Firearms Instructor based in Stapleton, Alabama. He is the Owner and Lead Instructor at Gulf Firearms Instruction, a Premier Firearms Training Academy that has been teaching citizens and law enforcement personnel for more than 31 years. He holds multiple teaching certifications as an NRA Training Counselor; he is certified to train instructors in NRA Basic Handgun, Basic Rifle, Personal Protection in the Home, and NRA CCW. He is certified to teach Law Enforcement in pistol, revolver, shotgun, urban rifle, and sniper skills. Before instructing at Gulf Firearms, he was a Police Officer for 25 years, and he is a Retired SWAT Officer. Novalee Wilder Professional Numerologist and Writer Novalee Wilder is a professional numerologist and writer based in Los Angeles, CA. Novalee specializes in reading numeroscopes and doing name changes. She offers 1:1 sessions, training and events. She is the author of A Little Bit of Numerology (2019) and A Little Bit of Angel Numbers (2023), and host of The Numerology Podcast. Novalee founded The Numerology School in 2019, where she teaches students to become certified professional numerologists. She has been featured in USA Today, Bustle, Well+Good, Parade, and more. Nadia Lee Pet Grooming Expert Nadia Lee is a pet grooming expert based in Los Angeles, California. She is a certified dog grooming expert with 20+ years of experience. She was the featured winner of a dog grooming challenge in HBO Max’s reality competition program Haute Dog. She has won multiple grooming competitions and has catered to the pets of multiple celebrities. Nadia has built an online community online where she posts pet grooming content as theboujeegroomer, and has over 34K followers on Instagram. Through her social media channels, Nadia aspires to educate others about taking care of their pets and the dog grooming industry. Austin Rogers Trivia Expert Austin Rogers is a trivia expert based in New York City, NY. Austin has hosted Pub Quiz trivia for nearly 20 years. In 2017 he became a Jeopardy! Champion with a 12-game winning streak, later becoming a Jeopardy! All Star and one of the top 20 Jeopardy! players of all time. In 2022, he released his first book, The Ultimate Book of Pub Trivia by the Smartest Guy in the Bar, which later evolved into the card game The Ultimate Card Deck of Pub Quiz Trivia. Austin co-founded Smartest Studios, an interactive digital gaming studio presenting trivia games for Major League Baseball, Harlem Globetrotters, Wicked on Broadway, and more. Austin hosts trivia for corporations, private events, and for a weekly standing show. He has been featured on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, Good Morning America, The Late-Late Show with James Corden, CNBC, and CBS Morning News, and is a series regular on multiple History Channel programs, including The Unbelievable with Dan Aykroyd and Hazardous History with Henry Winkler. Lauri Loewenberg Certified Dream Analyst Lauri Loewenberg is a certified dream analyst based in Tampa, Florida. Lauri studied Dream Psychology and became a certified Dream Analyst under the tutelage of Jungian trained, Ph.D., in 1996. Since then, she has analyzed and researched more than 100,000 dreams from people of all walks of life around the world. Her ground-breaking, easy-to-apply dream interpretation techniques have earned her appearances on The View, Good Morning America, CNN, The Katie Couric Show, The Steve Harvey Show, Fox Business, Live with Kelly and Mark, E! Entertainment Television and recurring spots on both The Today Show and Dr. Oz. For over 25 years, Lauri has been one of the most in-demand radio guests in the country, logging more than 3,000 interviews where she provides on-the-spot dream analysis for call-in listeners. Her expertise has been featured in Harper’s Bazaar, The New Yorker, Esquire, Maxim, Modern Bride, Glamour, Woman’s World, Woman’s Day, Prevention, Newsweek and Cosmopolitan. In March 2011, Lauri released her third book, Dream On It: Unlock Your Dreams, Change Your Life (St. Martin’s Press). Alison Betts Trivia Expert and Jeopardy! Contestant Alison Betts is a trivia expert and Jeopardy! contestant based in Los Angeles, CA. As a lifelong fan of Jeopardy!, Alison was the first player in Season 40 to become a 5-game champion and secure a spot in the Tournament of Champions. She also appeared on two other game shows, Bullsh*t The Game Show in 2022 and 25 or Words or Less in 2019, on which she won $250,000 and $10,000 respectively. Alison has a degree in Film and Media Studies from Arizona State University and works as a writer and creative executive. She has written pilot scripts, consulted on numerous television series, and served as the head speechwriter and communications director for a U.S. Senate Campaign. Jami Stigliano Dance Instructor and Entrepreneur Jami Stigliano is a dance choreographer and the founder and CEO of DivaDance based in Austin, Texas. DivaDance was founded in 2016, born out of a desire to revolutionize adult dance classes, inspire confidence, and build community, with an emphasis on accessibility and inclusivity. The flagship studio opened in Austin, Texas, and DivaDance began franchising in 2015, with more than 40 locations around the US and online. DivaDance has been featured in People, USA Today, InStyle, Time Out New York, and more. Jami also had an 18-year career in the music industry, spending nearly a decade at JIVE Records and working with artists like Britney Spears, Justin Timberlake, P!nk, The Chainsmokers, among others. She has a BS in Corporate Communication from the University of Texas at Austin. Kalem Turner Astrologer, Tarot Reader, and Palmist Kalem Turner is an astrologer, tarot reader, and palmist based in Edinburgh, Scotland. With over 13 years of experience, Kalem has read for thousands of people around the world, providing future predictions and life guidance. He offers email and in-person 1:1 fortune-telling sessions that combine palmistry, astrology, and tarot to create a comprehensive, traditional reading to help anyone create their own path. Kalem is also Scotland’s #1 Palmist and a divination teacher, offering online courses, resources, and a free newsletter on palmistry and tarot divination. Megan Blue Anime Expert and Content Creator Megan Blue is an anime expert and content creator based in Kingston, OH. With over 25 years of experience watching various anime and nearly 10 years creating content, Megan is known as The Fangirl (@TheFangirlWatches) online. She shares video essays covering movie analysis, character case studies, fan theories, pop culture topics, unboxings, and more. Megan is also a voice actor and the host of The Fangirl Watches podcast. Megan has a bachelor’s degree in film studies from Arizona State University and a master’s degree in animation from the Academy of Art University. Chris Frey Sports Cards and Memorabilia Collector Chris Frey is a sports cards and memorabilia collector based in Long Island, New York. As a lifelong collector, Chris is the Co-Owner and Vice President of 528 Collectibles LLC. 528 Collectibles was founded in 2020 as a platform for the next generation of card collectors to build their collections and connect. They live-stream box breaks across social media platforms daily for their customers to participate in and have three physical store locations in Locust Valley, NY, North Grafton, MA, and Asheville, NC, with a pop-up store in Norwalk, CT. Chris has an M.B.A. from Mount Saint Mary College. Eva Erickson Survivor and Reality TV Contestant Eva Erickson is a Survivor and reality TV contestant based in Providence, Rhode Island. Known for being the first openly autistic contestant on CBS’ Survivor and the Survivor 48 runner-up, Eva has a passion for inspiring others through her experiences and has since cultivated a social media presence highlighting Survivor, hockey, and autism advocacy. Eva is pursuing a PhD in Engineering Fluid and Thermal Science and is currently researching vortex- and wake-induced vibrations of elastically mounted seal whisker-inspired objects at Brown University for her PhD thesis. She has a BS in Physics from Georgia Tech, where she was also the first and only woman to play on the men’s hockey team. She also works as an NCAA Division I hockey official for the Hockey East conference. Miriam Weber Palmistry Expert Miriam Weber is a palm reader, astrologer, and mystic based in Austin, TX. With over 15 years of study, Miriam founded Sister Palm in 2019 and offers in-person, online, and group event readings. In addition to her work in palmistry, she also has an interest in metaphysical sciences via bio-energetics, astro physiognomy, and ancient predictive “time-telling” techniques. Miriam also has a degree in studio art. Anthony B Minecraft and Roblox Gaming Expert Anthony B is an online gaming expert based in Frankfurt, Germany. Specializing in both Roblox games and Minecraft, Anthony has been pursuing full-time content creation on YouTube for over 10 years. Known as BigB online, his gaming-focused YouTube channel has over 3.25 million subscribers. He was featured in a Minecraft Video game called "Minecraft Story Mode". In 2021, he was one of several YouTubers selected to appear in the YouTube Creators Skin Pack, celebrating a trillion views of Minecraft content on YouTube. In addition to his content creation work, Anthony is a Creative Director and works on developing new games for the Roblox platform. April Power Dog Breeder April Power is a Dog Breeder and the Owner of Power Goldendoodles in Boise Idaho. She places her puppies all around the United States, specializing in breeding English Teddybear Goldendoodle puppies. In June 2020, We Love Doodles named Power Goldendoodles as one of the 9 Best Goldendoodle breeders who sell in California. Cyriac St.Vil Aquarium Expert Cyriac St.Vil is an Aquarium Expert and the Director of Learning Through Nature based in Brooklyn, New York. With over 26 years of experience working with aquariums, Cyriac and the Learning Through Nature team have created aquariums in classrooms, lobbies, and dining halls for viewing and educational purposes. He has extensive knowledge of aquarium maintenance and care, making science fun, and building living habitats. Wes Corbyn Aquarium Expert Wes Corbyn is an Aquarium Expert and Owner of Intrinsic Reef Design based in Austin, Texas. Wes has been keeping aquariums since 1991 and has over 24 years of professional experience. He has been the owner of Intrinsic Reef Design since 2008 and specializes in reef tanks, coral growth, freshwater aquariums, and saltwater aquariums. Wes and his team focus on preventative maintenance and natural methods to keep aquarium ecosystems stable and healthy. He is published in the 2023 edition of the Reef Hobbyist Magazine. Zach Waldman Professional Comedy Magician Zach Waldman is a Professional Comedy Magician based in Los Angeles, CA. He has over 20 years of experience as an entertainer and performer. He is a comedian, magician, and mentalist, and he customizes his show to be distinct for every audience he performs for. His clients include some of the biggest corporations in the world, including Microsoft, Google, BusinessWeek, Absolut, the L.A. Kings, Anheuser-Busch, and more. He has been a member of the Academy of Magical Arts (AMA) since 2001, and performs regularly at the Academy’s clubhouse, The Magic Castle. For the past 20+ years, Zach has been a mainstay at many other reputable Los Angeles theaters and comedy clubs including the El Portal, the Comedy Store, the Improv, Flappers, and the Laugh Factory. Before moving to L.A., he attended the Player's Workshop of the Second City. He received his degree from the University of Central Florida. Rita Litton Acting Coach Rita Litton is an award-winning acting coach and founder of Rita Litton Studio based in New York City. Ms. Litton is a professional actress and has performed leading roles in New York and regional theaters and in many national commercials. Rita is the Founder and former Director of ACTeen Inc., the nation’s first on-camera acting program for teens, where, for over 30 years, she trained an illustrious roster of working graduates in film, television, and commercials. She is a four-time winner of Backstage Magazine's Reader's Choice Award ("Favorite Acting Coach & Classes”). Currently, she teaches and coaches adults and young adults at RLS, Rita Litton Studio. RLS offers virtual and in-person film acting and theatre acting technique classes for adults and young adults. These classes include acting classes for beginners through working professionals, monologue coaching, ‘self-tape’ audition assistance, and private coaching. Rita is the author of “Acting and Auditioning for Television Commercials”, a comprehensive teaching text on the subject. Rita served as assistant coordinator for the Playwrights Unit of The Actors Studio where she audited Lee Strasberg’s Method Acting classes. She studied the Meisner Technique as part of the select UCLA Acting Specialization Program. Rita trained in classical theatre at San Francisco’s American Conservatory Theatre and as a company member of the two-year professional conservatory program at Oakland University’s Academy of Dramatic Arts. Julia Topaz Astrologer Julia Topaz is an Astrologer based in Vancouver, British Columbia. She is the owner of Look Up the Stars, an astrology practice where she provides readings for clients. A lifelong astrology student raised by an astrologer, Julia spent years honing her craft and now shares her findings, concrete tools, and topics she’s passionate about with her clients. She integrates psychology in her astrology practice and focuses on what patterns in a chart say about a person’s psyche. Julia believes that astrology has the capacity to provide psychological and spiritual growth. She is the author of “Astrolographs: How the Zodiac Signs Behave (And Misbehave) in Love, Work, Leisure, and Beyond”. Julia also offers courses in predictions, romantic compatibility, and birth chart analysis. She has over 127K followers on Instagram, where she shares insightful astrological tips, info about different birth chart placements, and humorous, relatable, astrology content. Deon Voss Board Game Expert Deon Voss is a Board Game Expert based in Galesburg, Michigan. He is the owner and operator of Voss Media Board Game Cafe, Southwest Michigan's first Board Game Cafe. They have the largest selection of board games in the region. Through his business, he is trying to build the best board gaming community in the world, an interactive cafe that is forging community through games. In addition to tabletop board gaming, the cafe hosts meet-ups for group gaming, Dungeons & Dragons, Pathfinder, Pokemon, trivia, and Magic the Gathering. It’s a welcoming place for family and friends to reconnect through tabletop board gaming. They have over 2200 board games in-house with unique board gaming tables, and offer daily, monthly, or yearly memberships for avid gamers. Deon created Voss Media in the hope that it would become the community’s family-friendly game destination. Leza Labrador Magic and Manifestation Expert Leza Labrador, also known as The Social Sorceress, is a magic and manifestation expert based in Santa Clarita, CA. In 2021, Leza founded Bohemian Fig, through which she helps people step into their magic and power to fulfill great transformation. She has designed several courses, including Mind Alchemy, Awaken Your Alter Ego, Crafting Your Enchanted Life, and more. Leza offers a variety of ways to work with her, including one-on-one sessions, keynote speeches, retreats, and other events. With her personal journey rooted in Italian folk magic, experience in shadow work, and deep dives into self exploration, Leza is passionate about helping others find their true power and unlock their magic. Kevin Bozeman Stand-Up Comedian Kevin Bozeman is a stand-up comedian based in Downers Grove, Illinois. With over 26 years of experience, Kevin is an accomplished, full-time touring comedian and adjunct professor teaching stand-up comedy at DePaul University. He tours 40-45 weeks of the year, performing at comedy clubs, corporate events, colleges, and more.  In 2000 he was the winner of the Midwest region of the HBO “Comedy Competition”, and in 2015 he was a semi-finalist on NBC’s ‘Last Comic Standing’. His Dry Bar Comedy Special, “Clean & Unfiltered” has over 7 million views and Kevin has appeared on Comedy Central, NBC, CBS and Fox. He also hosts a weekly podcast, Boze Knows, where he takes on sports, pop-culture, and politics in his unique, hilarious style. Jon Purkis Game Expert Jon Purkis is a Board Game YouTuber based in London, England. For the past ten years, Jon has managed his YouTube channel Actual Lol, where he shares board game reviews and other related content to his over 136k followers. His content focuses on modern board games and is suitable for those who are new to the hobby and seasoned gamers alike. Jon previously worked as a Communications Manager for the critically-acclaimed board game, Fog of Love. He is also a freelance comedy writer with experience writing sitcoms for TV on the BBC, Cartoon Network, and Comedy Central. Fredrika Syren Sustainability Expert and Environmental Journalist Fredrika Syren is a sustainability expert and environmental journalist based in Stockholm, Sweden. In 2015, Fredrika began her family’s journey towards a zero-waste lifestyle. She started growing her own food, eating a plant-based diet, commuting and traveling more sustainably, and learning to forage for seasonal foods. She is the founder of The Zero Waste Family, sharing practical zero-waste tips, sustainable living guides, urban gardening advice, and budget-friendly solutions for living with less. She is the author of two books, "Exo Savings" and "A Practical Guide to Zero Waste for Families". Fredrika has been featured on NBC, CNN, National Geographic, Home Sweet Home, and more. M Catherine Palm Reader M Catherine is a palm reader based in Maharashtra, India. With over 16 years of experience, Catherine is the founder of Western Palmistry and specializes in palm reading, face reading, astrology, vastu, feng shui, and crystal healing. Combining her rich experience with her psychic abilities, she is able to offer palm readings, personality profiling, life path guidance, relationship and career insights, and spiritual symbolism interpretation. She has conducted over 3,000 personal readings for clients across 10+ countries and developed her signature reading style that is accurate, warm, and actionable. She has also been featured on a variety of online platforms and in community events for her expertise in modern palmistry. Jennifer Barone Board Game Specialist Jennifer Barone is a board game specialist based in Middletown, CT. With over 2.5 years of experience, Jennifer is the owner of Back Again Board Game Cafe, the building of which has been a learning experience. The cafe is a family-friendly space with a library of over 1,000 games and staff that has knowledge about far more. They host regular RPG, trivia, game-teaching events, and game design workshops. They also attend board game conventions to ensure they have the newest, best games available for their cafe patrons, as well as classics from the nostalgic to the modern. Jennifer has a bachelor’s degree in Interactive Digital Design from Quinnipiac University, which she puts to use through the marketing, design, and communication needs of her business. She encourages everyone to explore the benefits of the modern world of board games. Jian Yang Barbie Doll Collector and Toy Photographer Jian Yang is a Barbie doll collector and toy photographer based in Singapore. With a fascination that first started in 1984, Jian has now built a collection of over 13,000 dolls. In 2013, he was named the largest male collector of Barbie dolls in the world. He is also the author and creator of #flushablefashion, creating couture clothing for his dolls from toilet paper. In addition to crafting clothing, Jian can also be found traveling with and photographing his dolls around the world. He has been profiled in Business Insider, Yahoo! Finance, Mothership, VICE, Reuters, Vogue, BuzzFeed, and more. Josiah Campbell Pokémon Expert Josiah Campbell is a Pokémon expert based in London, England. As a lifetime Pokémon fan and longtime content creator, Josiah is known as the Durag Dragon online. He posts predominantly anime, Pokémon, and gaming content, to a community of nearly 120k followers across platforms. On TikTok alone, he boasts over 16.3 million likes. Eireann Kanzig Toy Collecting Expert Eireann Kanzig is a long-time toy collector based in Cleveland, Ohio. She began collecting toys in 2018 to preserve the wonderful memories of her childhood. As a millennial born in the 80’s and raised in the 90’s, her collection includes vintage and retro treasures and modern collectibles alike. Growing up, her grandparents owned an antique store, which allowed her the opportunity to see firsthand how items are tracked down. She was even able to go to Shipshewana, Indiana, to watch her grandfather as an auctioneer. Her mother has been a great influence as well by teaching her how to find collectibles throughout her travels. Eireann has also fostered a vibrant online community, sharing her personal collection and experiences with other toy collectors on social media @toyextraordineire. Marilin Karst Fitness Choreographer Marilin Karst is a Fitness Choreographer, Health and Fitness Coach, and the Co-Owner of Fiesta Fit Sisters. With nearly 15 years of experience, she specializes in wellness coaching and fitness instruction. She studied fitness, nutrition, and leadership at the Instituto Peruano Del Deporte. Marilin is certified by the American Council on Exercise as both a Health Coach and a Personal Fitness Trainer-Health Fitness Instructor. She’s also certified to teach Zumba Basic, Zumba Toning, and Zumba Kids. Carin Bennett Social Media Expert Carin Bennett is the Social Media Manager for NFP headquartered in New York City. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in planning, developing, implementing, and managing Social Media Accounts to create and maintain a company’s brand while engaging with their community using social media. She earned a Juris Doctor degree from both St. Thomas University & Barry University Schools of Law and her BA from the University of North Florida. Magic Suzy Professional Magician Suzy Seth, known professionally as Magic Suzy, is a Professional Magician based in Tampa, Florida. Known as Magic Suzy, she has over 20 years of experience as a magician, specializing in family-oriented comedy magic shows that entertain both kids and adults. She brings her signature show, The Magic Suzy Show, to kids’ birthday parties, school assemblies, PTA fundraisers, preschools, summer camps, and other private events. Her work has been featured on local TV stations in Tampa. Before that, she worked as an entertainer on Princess Cruises. Teddy Bayakhmetov Professional Climber Teddy Bayakhmetov is a professional climber and owner of Ninja Tide based in Stockholm, Sweden. Teddy specializes in rope practice, rigging, and rescue services. He also does industrial climbing work all over Europe and Scandinavia. Teddy has become widely known as a hero for his rescue work and has put his skills to use by saving over 240 cats, 4 birds, and 3 people from high places. Elianne El-Amyouni Spiritualist Elianne El-Amyouni is a spiritualist, writer, reader, speaker, content creator, and doctor of philosophy based in Canada. She has expertise in tarot, historical literature, object symbolism, spirituality, alchemy, philosophy, and jungian analysis. She has a following of over 1.5 million subscribers across platforms, and shares independent content in both video and text form. Her work is informed by her personal experiences as the child of immigrants in Canada, the lessons she has been taught by spiritual mentors along the way, and her formal education. Her MA study, completed at the University of Balamand, Lebanon, involved tracing variations of symbolic tradition in Jungian dream analysis, alchemical literature, and occult poetry. Her PhD, completed at the University of Waterloo, ON, Canada, explores narratives of resistance and political identity expression in Palestinian hip-hop. She is also a columnist for the Arabic newspaper Al-Akhbar and the literary magazine Rehla. Her work has been published in a number of journals and anthologies, both literary and academic. Be it in her studies of the unconscious realm and imagination, or of the conscious world and its struggles, she is most interested in what they reveal about identity, difference, and becoming. Chloe Hodgson Baby Naming Expert and Content Creator Chloe Hodgson is a baby naming expert and content creator based in the UK. Chloe first started on Instagram @babynamefanatic, sharing her favorite baby names, along with information about their origin and meaning. She has created an inclusive community with others who share her interest in names and has fostered a wonderful space to discuss motherhood and other related topics. Chloe also has experience helping individual parents choose their children’s names through personalized research. John Paul Gomez Freemason John Paul Gomez is a freemason and the founder of FraternalTies based in Toronto, Canada. With over 17 years in the world of freemasonry, John Paul is the Worshipful Master of his Freemason lodge. In 2008, when he first joined the freemason fraternity, he was searching for a Masonic necktie and discovered a need for more modern, elevated designs. In 2009, John Paul established FraternalTies, creating product lines of high-quality Masonic ties that honor the tradition and help elevate the Masonic experience for members. Their custom neckties are touted as best-in-class by several Masonic podcasts, including the Meet, Act and Part podcast and Masonic publications like the Southern California Research Lodge's Fraternal Review magazine. John Paul is an alumni from DeMolay International, a youth leadership organization with Masonic origins. Dylan McElliott YouTuber and Paranormal Activity Expert Dylan McElliott is a YouTuber based in Auburndale, Florida. In particular, he creates content focused on investigating paranormal activity. He has produced viral videos exploring abandoned buildings, visiting haunted sites, discussing alien abduction concepts, and researching other mysterious phenomena. He has built an impressive online community, including over 1.3 M subscribers on YouTube and 137K followers on TikTok. He has also developed his own merchandise line. Stephanie Paz Anime and Dragon Ball Expert Stephanie Paz is an anime content creator and Dragon Ball expert based in Florida, best known online as SSJGoshin4. She has been creating anime content on YouTube since 2009, making her one of the longest-running Dragon Ball creators on the platform. She has built a loyal community of more than 400,000 followers across social media, with her videos reaching over 21 million views. Stephanie’s content highlights her knowledge of Dragon Ball’s history, collectibles, and cultural legacy. Her expertise has earned her international recognition, including a feature on Fuji TV in Japan showcasing her extensive Dragon Ball collection. She has appeared as a guest panelist at conventions, leading discussions on the impact of Dragon Ball in shaping anime culture in the U.S. With a bachelor’s degree in Media Studies from Florida Atlantic University and experience in video production and social media strategy, Stephanie combines her passion for anime with storytelling and community engagement to inspire fans worldwide. Sabs Katz Sustainability Expert Sabs Katz is a sustainability expert based in the United States. With over 9 years of experience, Sabs started her blog Sustainable Sabs in 2016, sharing content focused around sustainability, zero-waste living, climate justice, plant based eating, ethical fashion, and more. She has also worked for multiple zero-waste startups, including a zero-waste grocery delivery service and zero-waste fresh food vending machine company. 5 years ago, Sabs co-founded the climate justice organization Intersectional Environmentalist, an eco-media company inspiring climate action through art, education and storytelling. Sabs has been featured on CBS, goop, Refinery29, Grist, and more. Shaihiem King Gaming, Anime, and Cosplay Expert Shaihiem King is a gaming content creator & anime and cosplay expert based in Charleston, South Carolina. Known as Tygee Sensei online, Shaihiem creates content on a variety of topics, including anime, cosplay, gaming, and pop culture to his growing audience of over 11k followers, known affectionately as the "Ty-Nobi”. As a cosplayer, Shaihiem looks to add a fresh spin to the art form by incorporating his locs. He is passionate about inspiring diversity and joy through content creation. Shaihiem has partnered with brands like Hot Topic, Box Lunch, Express, Bio World, and more. Deb Schaffer Spiritual Herbalism Expert Deb Schaffer is an intuitive herbalist and spiritual coach based in Lovettsville, Virginia. Deb is the owner of Enchanted Botanicals and is an energy master teacher and intuitive. Through Enchanted Botanicals, she offers a variety of products like candles, herbs, and energy tools and courses including Plant Magic and Modern Floriography, She also offers 1:1 energy and coaching sessions and group workshops. Deb uses her knowledge from studying medicinal herbalism to create transformational products and resources that bridge energy, nature, and magic. ThePokéRaf Pokémon and Anime Expert ThePokéRaf is a Pokémon and anime content creator based in the United Kingdom. With over 12 years of experience creating content, ThePokéRaf primarily creates content around Pokémon anime and the games for YouTube, but can also be found on Instagram, TikTok, and X. In addition, he is a co-host of the Rocket Radio Podcast. Tanya Schifone Funko Pop Collectible Expert Tanya Schifone is a Funko Pop collectible expert based in Boston, Massachusetts. With 4 years of experience collecting, Tanya has quickly built up a collection of over 3,000 Funko Pops. She collects everything from traditional newer sets to older, limited pieces, and rare Pops like Freddy Funko. Known as the Curated Collector, Tanya shares her diverse collection on social media, including showcasing her impressive wall displays and close-ups of her newest finds. In addition, Tanya collects Mattel Creations, Thrilljoy, Little People, LOL Dolls, Ninja Turtles, Jellycat, Labubu, Legos, and more. Ernest Sturm Marketing Expert Ernest Sturm is a Marketing Expert and the Owner of Runway Influence and Runway Waiters, as well as the President of Runway Collective. With over 10 years of experience as an entrepreneur, he specializes in producing social media campaigns and social brand activations. Runway Influence has a 5-star rating and partners with luxury brands and top influencers. Rut Nastiti Social Media Expert Rut Nastiti is a Social Media Manager at Innovations for Poverty Action based in Washington D.C. With over six years of professional experience, Rut uses her skills in online content creation, graphic design, public relations, and communications planning to lead Innovations for Poverty Action's social media policy and strategy initiatives. Rut received her Master of Public Policy from George Mason University and her Bachelor of Arts in International Relations and Communication Arts from Wartburg College. Tony Robinson CBD expert Tony Robinson is a CBD Expert & Content Writer at King Buddha. He has over 20 years of experience as a writer specializing in cannabis, CBD, and supplements. He is an expert in sharing well-researched information on the ways that CBD can improve well-being and the growing legality and accessibility of CBD products. Tony has a Master's in Creative Writing from New York University. Katie Van Note Dance Teacher Katie Van Note is the lead dance teacher and the owner of The First Dance Place in San Diego, California. With over 10 years of dance experience, she specializes in partnered dance styles, including East Coast Swing, Lindy Hop, Salsa, Bachata, Merengue, Rumba, Waltz, and Hustle. Katie's goal is to make dancing fun, accessible, and exciting for all couples to enhance whatever occasion they are celebrating. Alison Wellington Certified Dating Coach Alison Wellington is a Certified Dating and Relationship Coach and the founder of Align with Alison, a coaching company dedicated to helping women find the partner they deserve. With a certification in relationship coaching and a proven track record of success, she has helped over 300 women enter happy, healthy relationships, get engaged, and marry. Alison works with clients one-on-one, in small groups, and through self-paced courses, providing expert guidance tailored to successful professional women. She has built a thriving online community, with 102K Instagram followers, 10K on TikTok, and 3.4K YouTube subscribers, where she shares actionable relationship advice, dating insights, and commentary on modern dating trends. Alison holds an M.S. in Counseling and an advanced Mental Health Counseling degree extension from The College of New Rochelle. Haley Delgado Astrologer Haley Delgado is an experienced astrologer specializing in Western, Synastry, Esoteric, Asteroid, and Starseed astrology. With over 8 years of experience, her mission is to help her clients rediscover who they truly are, by guiding her clients on a journey of empowerment and cosmic alignment. Haley is known as MyMoonGirlReadings online, boasting a community of over 73k followers on instagram. She recently released the first e-book of 4 to come in 2024, Moonlit Astrology: The Basics, with Beyond the Basics, Love & Astrology, and Moongirl Topics coming soon. Haley also offers a variety of astrology classes on her website, covering everything from astrocartography, predictive astrology, relationships, finances, and more. Aliza Kelly Astrologer and Spiritual Coach Aliza Kelly is an astrologer, author, and host based in New York City. She started studying astrology in 2013 and became a full-time, professional astrologer in 2017. Aliza has been featured in numerous publications, including The New York Times, is a recurring guest on The Drew Barrymore Show, and has appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, E!, the Today show, and CNN. She currently writes biweekly columns in New York magazine’s The Cut and Marie Claire magazine. Additionally, Aliza produces a bestselling newsletter and hosts the podcast, “Horoscope Weekly”, where she interprets current astrological trends and explores important metaphysical concepts. She is the founder of a robust online private membership community, The Constellation Club, where she leads virtual workshops and mentors students across the world. Aliza offers courses on her website on common areas of astrological study and deep dives into specific chart placements. She is the author of 5 books, including "This Is Your Destiny: Using Astrology to Manifest Your Best Life" (2021), "There Are No Coincidences: A Manifestation Deck & Guidebook" (2022), and — her most recent — “It's All Magic: 365 Reflections on Astrology, Tarot, and Manifestation” (2024). Shannon McEvoy, CTA Certified Travel Advisor Shannon McEvoy is a certified travel advisor based in Central Florida. With over 17 years of experience in the luxury hospitality and tourism industry, she is a Certified Travel Advisor and a Certified Autism Travel Professional, and is passionate about helping people with their travel needs and planning. Shannon is the founder of Defying Limits Travel, specializing in traveling with celiac, allergies and special diets, limited mobility and disability travel, and cognitive and behavioral travel. She received a B.S. in Hospitality Management from the University of Central Florida's Rosen College of Hospitality Management. Jonathan Rice Numerologist Jonathan Rice is a Numerologist based in Spain. He has been studying Numerology for over 5 years, and is the creator of numerologyspirit.com, an educational numerology resource that he set up to help expand awareness of Numerology and its benefits. Jonathan is fascinated by the empowerment that knowledge of number meanings can bring to people’s lives, and his website helps people to understand their personal numerology and how to implement it in their lives. He writes articles exploring the significance of a variety of topics within Numerology, including angel numbers, master numbers, and life path numbers. He studied both Fine Art and Physics in University. Layne Dalfen Dream Interpreter Layne Dalfen is a dream interpreter based in Montreal, Canada. Layne founded The Dream Interpretation Center in 1997. She studied at the Gestalt Counseling and Training Center and Adlerian Principles of Dream Analysis at the Alfred Adler Institute. Layne has been teaching dream analysis to the Counselling students at Concordia University in Montreal since 2004. She developed a 6-Point of Entry method anyone can use to better understand their dreams. She is the author of two books, Have A Great Dream, Book 1; The Overview and Have A Great Dream, Book 2; A Deeper Discussion. She writes the Understanding Dreams column at Psychology Today and is known at OprahDaily.com as the Dream Catcher. She also recently consulted with PIXAR on the movie Dream Productions, which is streaming on Disney Plus. Layne offers Dreaminar® lectures/workshops with corporations and libraries. If you understand the conversation that is the dream, you can propel your problem-solving skills. Shelby Reyes Family Travel Expert Shelby Reyes is a travel agent and the founder of Reyes Family Adventures based in Denver, CO. Her family of three loves sharing their favorite travel moments, Disney hacks, theme park and cruise adventures guides, travel hacks, and free planning resources. She also specializes in family travel, maximizing your paid time off, working around school breaks and schedules, and finding great deals during high-peak travel seasons. Yasin Muhammad Content Creator Yasin Muhammad is a content creator based in Las Vegas, Nevada. With over 5 years of experience, Yasin specializes in creating content around pop culture, fandoms, entertainment, and anime & cosplay. Yasin leverages storytelling to allow people to reconnect with wonder through pop culture, building a community of over 1 million followers across YouTube, TikTok, and Instagram where he’s known as @yaseenthatguy. He has also partnered with both emerging brands and global names, including Mini Katana, Kanpai Foodz, Capitol Records, G Fuel, ExpressVPN, and more. Gray McCoy Global Flag Expert Gray McCoy is a global flag expert based in Little Rock, Arkansas. In 2017, Gray formally joined his family business, Flag and Banner, which has been a distributor, retailer, and manufacturer of flags for 50 years. With a team of experts, Flag and Banner also provides educational content and tutorials on YouTube, including deep dives into flag history, proper flag care and folding etiquette, and other content covering American, state, international, and nautical flags. Gray has been the co-producer and host of the series Flag Facts since 2023, providing expert commentary on a variety of flags from around the US. Haitham Kuraishi Historian and Global Flag Expert Haitham Kuraishi is a historian and global flag expert based in D.C. Since 2020, Haitham has been creating content on topics including history, geography, maps, travel, and flags. He is a docent and tour guide at the Museum of the Palestinian People in DC, and has also focused more of his content on Palestinian history, including sites, culture, and figures from the ancient, medieval, and modern areas of Palestine and the greater region of the Levant. Haitham has over 182k followers and 7.2 million likes on TikTok. He has also been a Washington, DC chapter ambassador for Afikra, a global media and educational platform for curiosity, intellectual, and cultural understanding about the Arab world. As part of his senior capstone project at Virginia Tech, he and his team placed first for their concept to design and build a futuristic energy-efficient and sustainable modular home at The Solar Decathlon Middle East competition held in Dubai in 2018. He has a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from Virginia Tech and 8 years of engineering experience within the manufacturing and biotechnology industries. Anthony Malewich Funko Pop Collectible Expert Anthony Malewich is a Funko Pop collector based in New York City. Anthony has been following Funko Pop and collecting for over 10 years now. He runs the Funko Hunter 718 Instagram and Facebook pages, buying from and selling to other collectors in the community. He is a third-year Accounting major with minors in Marketing and Finance, bringing over a decade of entrepreneurial experience running a successful global collectibles resale business. Anthony manages analytics, pricing, sourcing, and customer behavior for more than 50,000 buyers, and has sold over 150,000 items to date. Tracey McKee Astrologer & Intuitive Healer Tracey McKee is an Astrologer & Intuitive Healer and the Founder of Mindful Soul Wellness, based in Waleska, Georgia. Tracey offers astrology readings, energy healing sessions, past life regression therapy sessions, and soul coaching sessions to empower people to live a more mindful, balanced, and engaged life. She has certifications as a Reiki Master, Soul Coach, Vibrational Sound Therapist, Past Life Regression Therapist, and Hypnotist. Tracey has a B.A. in Religious Studies and an M.A. in Elementary Education. Emily Bauer Indoor Plant Specialist Emily Bauer is an Indoor Plant Specialist and the Founder of Bau Land, based in New York City. Bau Land, founded in 2019, is a design studio on a mission to improve people’s relationship with the environment and each other. They research and design solutions to environmental and social issues and create solutions across scales, from products and buildings to public spaces and urban plans. Prior to started Bau Land, she also founded and operated Jungle NYC, a lifestyle company that sold indoor plants and products to bring people closer to nature, no matter where they live. Emily received her Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) from Cornell University and her Bachelor of Science in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from the University of Buffalo. Christophe Fox Magician and Mentalist Christophe Fox is a Magician and Mentalist based in Virginia. He travels around the country as a full-time performer, providing various entertainment programs, from headline shows as a keynote speaker to close-up magic. He specializes in pressure management, teaching clients and audiences how to live more productively and creatively. His speaking clients have included PBS, Bloomberg, Deloitte, J.P. Morgan, the U.S. Army, and many more. Christophe’s programs deliver jaw-dropping entertainment with a signature blend of magic, mind-reading, and audience interaction. Ada Nicolle Crossword Puzzle Expert Ada Nicolle is a crossword constructor based in Toronto, Canada. Ada specializes in themeless, pop culture crossword puzzles that reflect modern trends and Gen Z culture. She strives to represent people not often in mainstream crossword puzzles and the present moment. She created a crossword blog called Luckystreak Xwords and is also the author of “A-to-Gen Z Crosswords”, a collection of 72 crossword puzzles. Ada’s crossword puzzles have been published in Xtra, USA Today, Crossword Club, the Atlantic, and more. Renee Slansky Dating Coach Renee Slansky is a Dating, Relationship, and Life Coach based in Europe. Her business combines mindset and life coaching with love education. As a global dating advisor to several of the largest online publications and dating platforms in the world, Renee’s aim is to help people cultivate strong, healthy relationships. In addition to offering one-on-one coaching services, Renee has produced courses to help both men and women gain clarity, confidence, and direction with their love life and relationships. Renee has contributed her expertise to multiple publications, including the Huffington Post, The Good Men Project, Your Tango, Yahoo 7, Bustle, Marriage.com and Elite Daily. She has served as a dating advisor and writer for some of the largest online dating sites in the world, including eHarmony, RSVP, Plenty Of Fish, Happn and Dating.com. Renee’s methods are practical, down-to-earth, and aimed at helping her clients get sustainable results while finding love. Mechila Blake Astrologer and Tarot Reader Mechila Blake is an astrologer and intuitive tarot reader based in Texas. With over 7 years of experience, Mechila has a deep understanding of the stars and a passion for tarot. She offers personalized readings that provide clarity, guidance and insight, including birth chart deep dives, astrology predictions, and compatibility consultations. Known as Astrology_Lyfe online, she boasts over 53k followers on Instagram, where she shares astrology insights, tarot readings, and more. Mechila has a BA in Communications and Sociology from The University of Texas at San Antonio. Kaitlyn Kaerhart Numerologist, Spiritual Teacher & Astrologer Kaitlyn Kaerhart is a professional numerologist, astrologer, & spiritual teacher. She is passionate about helping others understand their unique cosmic blueprint, using spiritual modalities to guide them toward a life of purpose and alignment. Whether through her international best-selling book, You Are Cosmic Code: Essential Numerology, or her bespoke online offerings, Kaitlyn’s mission is to make esoteric wisdom accessible to all. She has been featured in a range of publications including The Daily Mail, Bustle, MindBodyGreen, and Medium. Her online offerings include a yearly numerology planners, personalized numerology reports, and her signature Numerology 101 course. Kaitlyn has cultivated a global community of over 200K followers and has helped more than 10K clients and students gain deeper self-awareness and transformation through her work. Nico Pires Spiritual Advisor, Astrologer and Numerologist Nico Pires is a Spiritual Advisor, Alignment Coach, and Creative Strategist based in Washington DC. Nico has over 20 years of experience in dance, music, and visual, graphic, and performing arts. They have also studied the modalities of Astrology, Numerology, and Tarot for over 10 years, and have been a professional tarot reader and spiritual advisor for 6 years. Nico is passionate about helping their clients hone their intuition, imagination, and the concepts of intimacy. They encourage their clients to explore their creative potential and embrace wellness on their journey to self-discovery. Known as @themutlihyphenate on TikTok, Nico shares content to his over 24k followers, including spiritual insights, astrology, numerology, and tarot readings, a series called Decolonizing Astrology, and more. Misia Welters Meditation Coach and Intuitive Reader Misia Welters is a meditation coach and intuitive reader based in the UK. Misia trained under a psychic, a yoga instructor, and a shaman, took courses in breathwork, shamanic journeying, meditation teacher training and later immersed herself in Jungian psychology. She has worked full-time in the field of spiritualism giving intuitive readings and selling introspective tools since she was 18. Using a combination of shamanic methods and Jungian principles, Misia helps her clients align with their true path, gain lasting clarity and create tangible transformation in your life through 1:1 meditation coaching. With about 200k followers on her TikTok @perceptiveperspective, she shares her experience and knowledge on meditation, intuition, and spirituality. Chelsey Weber-Smith American Urban Legends Podcaster Chelsey Weber-Smith is an American urban legends expert based in Seattle, WA. Chelsey is the host of the podcast, American Hysteria, covering topics like moral panics, urban legends, conspiracy theories. Chelsey analyzes how fantastical thinking has shaped our culture from the puritans to the present. The American Hysteria podcast was an Apple Top 100 Society & Culture podcast and selected as one of Spotify's Best Episodes of 2021 with an average 400K monthly downloads. Chelsey has prior experience as a freelance writer, poet, and poetry instructor. She has a Bachelor’s degree in Creative Writing from Western Washington University and a Master’s in Fine Arts in Poetry from the University of Virginia. Jen Tenzer Luxury Travel Advisor Jen Tenzer is an American luxury travel advisor and solo travel expert based in Paris. After a 10+ year career in investment banking, Jen decided to pursue a career aligned with her true passion, travel.  Jen has personally traveled to over 50 countries and counting, with a wealth of solo travel experience! Also known as The Soloist online, her site serves as a hub filled with travel blog resources, solo traveling tips, and one-on-one customized travel planning services. From honeymoons to family vacations, she plans once-in-a-lifetime, luxury travel experiences. Jen was among a handful of travel advisors selected as a 'Rising Star' advisor by Travel+Leisure in 2025. She is proudly affiliated with Embark Beyond, a luxury travel agency endorsed by Forbes Travel Guide. Dr. Tamsin Lee Daoist Metaphysical Expert Tamsin Lee, DA[o]M, EAMP, LAc is a Daoist metaphysical expert with over 10 years of experience. Their multifaceted background includes East Asian medicine, public health research, somatic embodiment, and health justice advocacy. They have been recognized by the National Institutes of Health, the American Public Health Association, TEDMed, and Well+Good's Health and Wellness Changemakers. In 2016, they founded Elemental Archetypes, offering Daoist face reading, Bazi Astrology, and Yangsheng seasonal living. They are also the co-host of the podcast, Beauty as a Birthright, exploring the evolving concept of beauty and aging through Daoist practices. Tamsin works with clients worldwide, offering spiritual guidance to help reconnect with the wholeness of their being. Caitie Bee My Little Pony Collector Caitie Bee is a My Little Pony collector based in Southern California. Known as Ponyguru online, Caitie has been collecting My Little Pony since the 1980s. She collects generation 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, and has a growing collection of nearly 6,000, including standard ponies, miniatures, plush, and "fakies." In addition to collecting, Caitie also customizes and restores her ponies, and connects with a community of collectors online and at conventions. Caitie has contributed photographs of her collection to two My Little Pony collectors' books, as well as given lectures at conventions about the process of customizing My Little Ponies. Jennifer Ficarra Name Consultant Jennifer Ficarra is a name consultant based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 3 years of experience, Jennifer is a writer and creative storyteller with a passion for names, and the founder of Nom de Bloom. She offers customizable name consultation packages that include name lists, origins and explanations, aesthetic collages, and 1:1 sessions. Jennifer also shares naming content on social media, with over 61k followers and 1.3 million likes on TikTok. In addition, Jennifer has worked in digital media, and currently works as a screenwriter and playwright. Griffin Bassett Linguistics Expert & Content Creator Griffin Bassett is an Linguistics Expert and Content Creator based in Chicago, Illinois. Known as @wordsatwork on major social platforms, Griffin has developed an online following due to his expertise in linguistics. In particular, he is prolific on TikTok and Instagram, where he publishes short-form educational content about linguistics and geography. He has over 200K followers on TikTok and over 97K followers on Instagram. His videos about language and the mechanics of speech frequently received hundreds of thousands of views. Griffin is passionate about a wide variety of topics, especially constructed languages (conlangs), sociolinguistics, and geography. Outside of his career as a content creator, Griffin works at a museum in Chicago. He received a BA in International Studies from Boston College. Damona Hoffman Celebrity Dating Coach Damona Hoffman is a dating coach, on-air personality, and bestselling author. Her book "F the Fairy Tale" (2024) busts outdated dating myths and offers an empowering new approach to love. With over 15 years of experience, she's regular contributor to The Drew Barrymore Show, NPR, and NBC’s Access Daily. Damona has also written columns for The LA Times and The Washington Post. Additionally, she’s consulted for numerous dating apps including OkCupid, Match, and Bumble. Damona also hosts the award-winning podcast Dates & Mates. Julia Blackwell Pet Groomer Julia Blackwell is a pet groomer and business owner based in Salt Lake City, Utah. She is the founder of Pupwell, a company that offers luxury dog grooming products and provides pet care education. She founded the business in 2021, after realizing during lockdown how many people don’t know how to properly groom their pets and struggle when they don’t have access to professional groomers. Through Pupwell, Julia seeks to educate pet owners about proper pet care and provide them the tools they need for their pets to thrive. Prior to founding Pupwell, Julia worked for nine years as a dog breeder at Bountiful Doodles, and specializes in breeding and caring for Goldendoodles. She also has career experience as a hairstylist. She received a BA from Utah State University and attended the New Horizons School of Cosmetology. Kimberly Hill Certified Dating and Relationship Coach Kimberly Hill is a certified dating and relationship coach based in Vancouver, BC. Kimberly is a certified dating and relationship coach who helps divorced and single men get unstuck, elevate their dating experiences, and build meaningful connections. She is certified in Neuro-Linguistics and Solutions-Focused Coaching and is the host of the podcast The Self-Confidence Project, which is in the top 2% of podcasts globally. Kimberly has1:1 coached over 350 men and has a growing community on social media of over 150,000 men, benefitting from her coaching and advice. She also created a Masterclass for her community, “10 Must-Know Tips For Talking & Texting With Women”. In 2023, she was named one of the Top 10 Dating Coaches and she has been prominently featured on CBS News, Fox News, and NBC News, along with over 200 news publications. April Davis Matchmaker April Davis is a Matchmaker based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. She is the Founder and President of LUMA, a high-end executive matchmaking service designed for singles seeking a long-term committed relationship. April established LUMA  in 2010 with the belief that everyone deserves to be in a healthy, loving, and long-lasting relationship. April employs a team of professional matchmakers with over two decades of experience, committed to finding their members the person they will spend the rest of their lives with. In addition to their matchmaking offerings, LUMA offers date coaching services. LUMA was featured on Inc. 5000’s list of Fastest Growing Companies, and April was featured for her work on Bravo's Hit Reality Show, Real Housewives of the OC. Through LUMA’s customized approach for members, dating coaching services, and cultivated connection-building, April has designed a business to help clients meet their perfect match. She received a Master’s Degree in Business Administration, Management and Operations and a BA in Accounting and Business/Management from The College of St. Scholastica. Wendy Lynne Life and Relationship Coach Wendy Lynne is a life and relationship coach based in Redmond, WA. In 2009, Wendy founded Wendy Lynne Coaching to help individuals break free from fear and limiting beliefs to live a fulfilling and happy life. With experience in relationship, career, health, and life coaching, Wendy was named a top coach by coachfoundation.com. She was trained by Martha Beck as a Life Coach and by The Life Coach School as a Master Life Coach. She is an Internal Family Systems Therapist and received advanced training in relationship coaching from the Hendricks Institute. Wendy also graduated from UCLA with a BA in Sociology and has previous experience as a Managing Director at the Mental Toughness Academy. Meg Harrell Registered Nurse and Nursing Educator Meg Harrell is a nurse, mentor, and nurse educator based in Sanford, FL With over 16 years of experience as a registered nurse, she discovered her passion for supporting and empowering nursing students and new nurses. Meg founded nursemegrn.com, where she provides supplemental study materials for nursing students studying for their licensure, the NCLEX, and are training in and out of hospitals. In addition to her free resources, she also offers 1:1 tutoring and a weekly newsletter with more helpful tips, news, and more. She has experience in the ER, Med-Surg, Pre-Op, Nursing Homes, Rehab Centers & more. Meg has been featured on a variety of media and news outlets, including ABC, NBC, CBS, and FOX. Michael Jamin TV Screenwriter, Showrunner, and Author Michael Jamin is a TV screenwriter, showrunner, and author. With over 28 years of experience writing for television, Michael is most known for his work on Just Shoot Me, King of the Hill, Beavis & Butt-Head, Wilfred, Out of Practice, Rules of Engagement, Lopez, and Tacoma FD. In addition, he served as Executive Producer and Showrunner on Glenn Martin DDS, Maron, and Rhett & Link’s Buddy System. In 2024, Michael wrote a book, A Paper Orchestra, which was later named Best Comedy Book of 2024 by Vulture. He currently tours with it as a solo show and won the “2025 Edinburgh Fringe Theatre Award.” His Substack is called “What the Hell is Michael Jamin Talking About” where he shares insights on the business and craft of writing. He also shares daily tips for aspiring screenwriters, actors and directors on his social media to over 728k followers under the handle @MichaelJaminWriter. Gia Rutkowski Influencer and Content Creator Gia Rutkowski is a content creator, speaker, and consultant based in Chicago, Illinois. Gia specializes in digital patterns and their behavioral implications. Growing up immersed in the online world sharpened her ability to spot rising trends and cultural shifts before they go mainstream, turning them into actionable strategies for clients and digestible breakdowns for her 130k+ young followers. Her bilateral approach to media analysis, working closely with both corporations and consumers, keeps her plugged into the rapid cycle of influence. Gia is currently studying Sociology and Philosophy at Loyola University Chicago. She educates a global, intergenerational audience on the evolving cyber-world and its real-world entanglement, sharing her work across TikTok, Substack, and YouTube. She’s worked with youth-focused media outlets to share her insights with hundreds of millions of monthly viewers and has been recognized by Yahoo! News, Glamour, and more. Sheila Omondi Digital Content Strategist and Creator Sheila Omondi is a digital content strategist and creator based in Los Angeles, CA. With a background in digital marketing, performing and filmmaking, Sheila creates comedic content online @sheilaajjie for her over 145k followers across TikTok, Instagram, Snapchat, and YouTube. She is also the executive producer of a talk show No Table Manners, featuring interviews with celebrities, creators and artists. Sheila works with clients to help them inject their work with humor and colorful storytelling. Her signature style has caught the attention of brands like Meta, Adobe, M&M’s, Crocs, Spotify, Beis, and more. She received a Master’s in Digital Social Media from the University of Southern California. Shivam Patel High-End Collectibles Expert Shivam Patel is a high-end collectibles expert based in Virginia. With over 6 years in the collector’s space, Shivam collects all things Pokémon, Digimon, Yu-Gi-Oh, Sports, Toys, Video Games and more, and shares content around his collectibles on social media. He has amassed over 26k followers and Instagram and over 22k followers on YouTube. Shivam has also attended major conventions and has worked with major auction houses, including Heritage Auctions. He has also partnered with companies like eBay, Fanatics, and Goldin. Britt Edelen BA in English Literature, Brown University Britt Edelen comes to wikiHow after graduating in 2019 from Brown University, where he studied English and German literature and philosophy. While at Brown he contributed frequently to campus publications and worked in the university’s Writing Center. More recently, he has had several articles published in various journals devoted to literary criticism. During his time at wikiHow, Britt supervised and collaborated with writers and editors to continue producing high-quality content and promote wikiHow’s mission of enabling everyone to learn anything. Javier Diaz Entrepreneur & Stunt Helicopter Pilot Javier Diaz is an Entrepreneur & Stunt Pilot, and owner of Wings Air Helicopters LLC. With over 20 years of flying experience in both helicopters and small planes, his company specializes in helicopter charters, tours, flight training, and aerial film production. He earned his BS from the United States Merchant Marine Academy and is a member of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG). As a Stunt Pilot, Javier has many major film credits, including several blockbuster films. Evelina Renta Mindfulness Coach Evelina Renta is a Mindfulness Coach based in Berlin, Germany. With over five years of experience, she teaches sound therapy, yoga, movement, and breathwork courses. Evelina has a Wellness, Health & Longevity Coaching Certification from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. Seth Petra Metallurgist Seth Petra is a Metallurgist at Federal Screw Works in Big Rapids, Michigan. With two years of professional experience, Seth engineers parts for automotive manufacturing and has experience with materials testing and heat-treated induction. Seth received a Bachelor’s Degree in Metallurgical Engineering from South Dakota Mines. Emily Ridout AstroYoga Specialist Emily Ridout is an AstroYoga Specialist and the Founder of the International School for AstroYoga, based in Eugene, Oregon. With over 14 years of professional experience, she specializes in the ancient connection between astrology and yoga. Emily offers private astrology readings, AstroYoga sessions, yoga classes, and tarot readings, all in the name of helping people create alignment in their lives. Her work has been featured in Yoga Journal, Reader's Digest, and Women's Health. Emily received her MA in Folklore with New Media and Culture Certificate from the University of Oregon. Phil Yu Rubik's Cube Expert Phil Yu is a Rubik’s Cube expert based in New York, New York. He is both a prominent member of the cubing community and CEO of TheCubicle, a leading online specialty cube store committed to providing customers with superior products and an innovative cubing experience. TheCubicle was launched in August of 2011 with a handful of popular World Cubing Association puzzles and a variety of hand-done custom mods. Over the years, they have been recognized as a major innovator and a top contributor in the speedcubing community. As CEO, Phil manages business development, innovation, and media at TheCubicle. He is best known for being a one-handed specialist using the ZZ method. Phil was a dominant OH solver on the East Coast in the early 2010s and set a North American record average in August 2012, which ranked 2nd in the world at the time. During his competitive career, Phil published a series of tutorials on ZZ and helped inspire mainstream interest in the method. Phil received his Bachelor’s degree in Music Business from New York University and a JD from Georgetown University. Jessica Lizarraga Influencer & Content Creator Jessica Lizarraga is a Content Creator based in Las Vegas, Nevada. She teaches slang and English Colloquialism, with the goal of helping people become more articulate. She has built an online community of 70k followers through her TikTok account, @LizarragaBooks, where she shares English language content, shares content creation advice, and explains popular slang and trends. She also provides recommendations to her audience for improving their eloquence and utilizing creative language to achieve their goals. Outside of her content creation work, Jessica also has a career in the Live Events Industry in Las Vegas. She also is a Tour Guide with the Las Vegas Raiders, and gives both public and private tours of Allegiant Stadium. Melanie Sheree Psychic Medium & Spiritual Teacher Melanie Sheree is a Psychic Medium & Spiritual Teacher based in Boulder, Colorado. Melanie specializes in supporting and guiding highly sensitive individuals in exploring and expanding their spiritual awareness and intuitive gifts. She currently offers a women’s psychic development program called Awakened Sanctuary and weekly live virtual classes exploring the world of energy work and spirit, The Awakened Spirit classes. Melanie also has on-demand courses available, covering everything from manifestation, raising your vibration, healing with crystals, speaking with spirits, accessing your psychic abilities, and so much more. Along her personal journey, she has studied reiki, astrology, tarot, numerology, subconscious deprogramming, breath work, channeling, and more. Joanna Cabot Psychic Medium and Energy Healing Practitioner Joanna Cabot is a Psychic Medium and Energy Healing Practitioner based in Saint Barthélemy. Her goal is to use the abilities she has developed to give her clients guidance, reassurance, insights, connection to their loved ones, and a more harmonious and peaceful life. She connects with clients through psychic abilities such as clairvoyance, clairaudience, clairsentience or claircognizance. She runs Holistic Self Space, a private practice where she offers readings, energy healing sessions, rituals, and space clearing. She also offers the Lift Me Up Program, a 10-week program for students to learn and develop energy healing and psychic abilities. The course blends ancient wisdom with modern techniques, guiding students through practical exercises and personalized mentoring. Joanna has trained with evidential mediums and is a certified energy healing practitioner and teacher from the Ashati Institute. Joanna approaches her work with kindness, trust, compassion and understanding. Lewis Dixon Pilot and Flight Instructor Lewis Dixon is a pilot, flight instructor, and aviation content creator. With over 10 years of experience, Lewis has set out to inspire pilots and students by showing how much fun the aviation world can be. He has been sharing flight training, flying tips, advice, and more online @LewDixAviation since 2015. In 2016, Lewis became a Certified Flight Instructor (CFI), and later also became a Certified Flight Instructor Instrument (CFII) and Airline Transport Pilot (ATP). Over time his content has evolved to include instructional flights, mockumentaries and so much more, always with an emphasis on fun. Glynis McCants Master Numerologist Glynis McCants is a master numerologist based in San Marino, CA. With over 30 years of experience, Glynis believes that numerology helps ease people’s lives, whether it be personal, career, relationships, and more. She specializes in helping people discover their unique life path and understand themselves and their relationships better through numbers. Glynis offers personalized Numerology reading reports, and has sold over 275,000 from her website. Glynis is an international bestselling author with two numerology books, Glynis Has Your Number (2005) and Love by the Numbers (2010). She has appeared on a variety of shows, including Dr. Phil, Dr. Oz, 60 Minutes, The Talk, 20/20, and more. Glynis was also an expert advisor brought in by the producers of the Jim Carrey movie Number 23, and she has a Numerology segment on the Special Features of the film. Gavin Santiago Trend Expert & Content Creator Gavin is a financial analyst by day and internet bestie by night, known for his car-rant commentary, pop culture hot takes, and Zillennial nostalgia deep dives. What started as a petty challenge to outgrow an ex’s follower count has since turned into a community of over 45,000 on TikTok and thousands more on Instagram. Whether he’s decoding friend group dynamics or spiraling about mid-2000s trends, Gavin brings a mix of cozy chaos and relatable humor that makes followers feel like they’re in the passenger seat right next to him. Kezia Noble Dating and Relationship Coach Kezia Noble is a dating and relationship coach based in the United Kingdom. With over 19 years of experience, Kezia is a leading female dating expert for men and the author of the best-selling book, The Noble Art of Seducing Women. Kezia specializes in helping men overcome the challenges they experience when meeting and attracting women. With over 400k followers and 80 million views on her YouTube channel, her insights and straight-talking advice have helped over 100,000 men around the world dramatically increase their success rate with women. Kezia has regularly been featured on television and radio in both the UK and the US, along with numerous articles for major newspapers and magazines across the globe. Max Rublyuk Certified Professional Dance Instructor Max Rublyuk is a Certified Professional Dance Instructor and the Owner of The Monarch Ballroom. With over 20 years of experience, he specializes in teaching International Standard Ballroom to people at all dance levels. Throughout his professional career, Max has won numerous dance competitions, including the Rising Star Professional Ballroom Championships at the Ohio Star Ball. Luke Leskovisek Aquarium Expert Luke Leskovisek is an Aquarium Expert and the Owner of The Coral Crib, based in Bloomington, Illinois. With over five years of professional experience, Luke specifically focuses on coral aquaculture and growing coral. He and his team offer fish, aquariums, live rock, aquarium decor and lighting, water testing, aquarium cleaning and maintenance, and more to their customers. Ashleigh Lopez Professional Dog Groomer Ashleigh Lopez is a professional dog groomer based in South Riding, Virginia. With over 10 years of experience, Ashleigh started grooming dogs in high school and is now the owner of Little Jenna’s Grooming salon. The salon offers a variety of grooming and bathing services, luxury and locally sourced pet products, and a comfortable, safe environment for all of their pet clients. Ashleigh also started Go Buddy Run, a mobile dog gym to augment routines for dogs who need more exercise, and Pawdicure.com to give pet parents throughout Virginia the ability to have a professional come to their home for pet nail trims. Richard Prasad Mattress Design Expert Richard Prasad is a Mattress Industry Professional based in San Francisco, California. He is the Founder and CEO of SLEEP365®, a sleep retail and wholesale business specializing in mattress design and sales. Founded in 2018, SLEEP365® champions healthy sleep through its organic, non-toxic bedroom products designed to provide a luxury sleep experience. Richard has been in the mattress industry since 2004. He got his start operating within the traditional mattress legacy brand marketplace, where he began evaluating outdated practices in the mattress industry. Factors like the use of toxic chemicals, a lack of personalization to the sleeper’s unique body composition and sleep style, and other underutilized data points led Richard to start working on disrupting sleep technology and traditional approaches to mattress manufacturing. Richard and his team developed their signature "Sleep Consultation" process at SLEEP365® to ensure that they produce the optimal mattress and sleep experience for their customers. He received an Associate’s Degree in Business Management from Foothill College. Tali & Ophira Edut Astrologers Tali & Ophira Edut are astrologers, intuitive advisors, and best-selling authors, also known as the AstroTwins. They are long time resident astrologers at ELLE magazine and have published over 20 books, including their newest, The Astrology Advantage (2024). The Astrology Advantage introduces their revolutionary IAM System, simplifying the birth chart into three archetypes: Innovator, Authority, and Maven. More information on their IAM System can be found on their online platform, AstroStyle, along with a wealth of knowledge and resources. Tali and Ophira host a weekly podcast called AstroTwins Radio and can be found on YouTube @astrotwins-tv. They have also appeared as guest experts for Bravo, MTV, Good Morning America, and the Today Show and created the first reality TV dating show based on astrology, Cosmic Love, on Amazon Prime (2022). Tali and Ophira both graduated from the University of Michigan with BAs in Fine Arts. Nicole Linde Psychic & Spiritual Advisor Nicole Linde is a psychic medium, intuitive, and mentor based in Twin Cities, MN. With over 8 years of experience, Nicole has developed her mediumship and psychic skills and offers in-person and online readings, group readings, workshops, retreats, and other events. In addition, Nicole is passionate about helping others to develop their gifts and has been mentoring students since 2019. She offers two online programs, Mediumship Development and Psychic & Intuitive Development. Emilee Dahl LEGO Expert Emilee Dahl is a LEGO expert based in Phoenix, Arizona. She is the founder of The TRĀ Company, an e-commerce business that sells beautiful yet functional building trays compatible with LEGO bricks. Their wood trays enhance the LEGO building experience, while the simple design doesn't distract from home decor. As an avid builder and collector of LEGO sets and a collector of LEGO Brickheadz, Emilee has built a following of over 22K on Instagram, where she shares advice on topics like sorting LEGO, ordering parts, visiting LEGO events, and more. She is known for her recommendations and hacks for organizing LEGO effectively in busy households. She was a competitor on Season 4 of Lego Masters, where she finished as a semifinalist. Emilee encourages others to make LEGO sets a go-to activity for family fun and togetherness, and enjoys designing her own creations as much she enjoys building sets. Iverson Lee Chinese Metaphysics and Astrology Expert & Entrepreneur Iverson Lee is a Chinese Metaphysics expert and entrepreneur based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. With over 12 years of experience, Iverson is an international speaker, trainer, and consultant specializing in Feng Shui, BaZi, Qi Men Dun Jia, Yi Jing, Face Reading, and Date Selection. He is passionate about helping people worldwide by spreading the knowledge of Chinese Metaphysics through courses, workshops, and talks, and has worked with CEOs of multinational companies, business professionals, teachers, students, and more. As an entrepreneur, Iverson has also built programs that blend ancient wisdom with modern strategies to help individuals unlock wealth and personal transformation. He has spoken for organizations including Ecoworld, Citibank, HSBC, Standard Chartered, PropertyGuru.com, and more. Nicole Favarelli Film and Video Director and Branded Content Creator Nicole Favarelli is a film and video director and branded content creator based in London, England. With over 6 years of experience, Nicole specializes in blending psychological horror with emotionally driven storytelling. Nicole’s work explores trauma, isolation, grief and more. Some of her award-winning shorts include Chocolate Tronchetto (2022), The Boogeyman (2021), and Vakuum (2019), and her work has screened at festivals including the BAFTA-qualifying Bolton Film Festival. Nicole also has diverse experience in digital and branded content creation, delivering end-to-end campaigns for platforms like TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram. In 2021, Nicole received her BA in Directing for Film and Television from MetFilm School in London. Michael Arnoldi Jeweler Michael Arnoldi's family owns Arnoldi Jewelers in California, a three generation family jewelry business that began in Italy and moved over to the United States. Michael has over 10 years of experience in the jewelry industry. Bob Melkus Escape Room Expert Bob Melkus is an Escape Room Expert and the co-founder and CEO of Fox in a Box Escape Room Franchise, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. Started in 2013, Fox in a Box today has 25 locations across 4 continents, with over 2 million escape room players worldwide. Bob is an expert in escape room design and business franchising. Bob received a Bachelor's degree in English Literature and Language from the University of Novi Sad. He currently lives in Sweden with his family. Daniel D'Onofrio Escape Room Expert Daniel D'Onofrio, a leading Escape Room Expert and Co-Founder of Adventure Vault, has been creating fun and engaging escape room experiences in South Florida alongside his talented team for over seven years! Adventure Vault is comprised of Daniel’s brother Lucas and his sister-in-law Tamara. This close-knit trio shares a passion for crafting exciting escape rooms that everyone can enjoy, regardless of their background or previous escape room experiences. Adventure Vault is also home to a cutting-edge virtual reality arcade, showcasing the team's dedication to providing unforgettable, enjoyable adventures for all! Kelli von Heydekampf Certified Professional Hypnotist Kelli von Heydekampf is a Certified Professional Hypnotist and Owner of West Metro Hypnosis in Minneapolis, Minnesota. With over 10 years of experience, Kelli specializes in diversified, client-centered hypnosis techniques to create lasting change for people by introducing them to their own brilliance and resilience. She helps adults, teenagers, and children navigate anxiety, sleep problems, sports enhancement, weight release, and confidence building through hypnosis. Kelli is certified through the Midwest Hypnotherapy Academy and continues to deepen her expertise and knowledge through continuing education. Allyn Evans Meditation Expert Allyn Evans is a Meditation Expert. She is the Chief Executive Officer and Residential Trainer for the Monroe Institute. She is also a certified Reiki Master Teacher. The Monroe Institute is widely recognized as a leading center for exploring and experiencing expanded states of consciousness. For over 50 years, their immersive programs have empowered participants to undergo profound transformations, gaining a fresh outlook on life and discovering a deep sense of purpose. In addition to their experiential programs, the Monroe Institute partners with scientists, doctors, and academics to explore the remarkable benefits of expanded states of consciousness. At Monroe, Allyn has helped lead the efforts to create virtual programming, develops program meditations, and is one of the trainers featured in the Monroe Expand App. She is also a Mindvalley author. Allyn’s meditations have been published in numerous languages. She earned a BA in Psychology from the University of Mississippi and an MBA from Texas Tech University. KJ Atlas Astrologer, Astrocartographer and Business Coach KJ Atlas is a certified astrologer, astrocartographer and business coach based in Southern California. With over six years of experience, KJ leverages her diverse background in behavioral health, psychology, and organizational strategy and specializes in business and travel advisory, relationship compatibility, and lifestyle strategy. She has served over 4,000 clients, primarily celebrity, entrepreneurial, and corporate clientele and works with Fortune 50 companies. KJ graduated from the in-person Portland School of Astrology in 2020 and later worked for the world-renowned Jan Spiller, writing 20,000 words of daily horoscopes every week for two years. In 2023, KJ created the Grove Almanac, a digital astrological Google Calendar that plugs into your Google Calendar and provides written-by-human astrology for the day-to-day. She also recently appeared on the Netflix reality dating show Sneaky Links: Dating After Dark. Christopher Earnshaw Freemason Christopher Earnshaw is a Freemason based in Tokyo, Japan. He joined Freemasonry in 1984 when he first arrived in Japan and has been a member for 41 years. He has independently published over a dozen books through KDP Amazon, including seven on Freemasonry. Earnshaw has a diverse background with experience in pharmaceuticals, banking, and academia, and, besides English, he speaks fluent Japanese and some Chinese. Previously he was a lecturer of Politics and Economics at Waseda University and a professor of Asian Studies at Daito Bunka University, both in Tokyo. Earnshaw has a BA in Japanese and Chinese from the London University (SOAS), an MA in Transpersonal Studies from Atlantic University, and a PhD in Neuroscience from Tokyo Denki University with Stanford University. He is an amateur 'cellist. Tareth Peacock Global Flags Expert Tareth Peacock is a global flags expert based in the UK. With over 5 years of experience creating content on his YouTube channel, Flags in Focus, Tareth is passionate about creating educational content on a variety of flags, including national, historic, city, regional, naval, and more. His newest series, Flags in 50 Places, combines his passion for travel with flags and allows him to explore more about their national symbol. Tareth is a member of the UK’s Flag Institute and a member of the North American Vexillology Association. He has presented at the UK’s Flag Institute about different city flags and writes a recurring article for their monthly newsletter. Look to the Stars Celebrity Charity News Resource Look to the Stars is a website covering what celebrities are doing to make a positive difference in the world. As a source of celebrity charity news and information, Look to the Stars was launched in 2006 by Steve and Myrlia Purcell and has been trusted by publications such as the BBC, the Associated Press, Forbes, Celebrity Society Magazine, and E! Online. Look to the Stars provides exclusive interviews and a database where fans can learn about their favorite stars' good deeds. Andrew Innes Creator of Anomia Andrew Innes is the Creator of Anomia and the Founder and CEO of Anomia Press. Anomia is board and card game focused on brain and word puzzles. Andrew came up with the idea for Anomia when he was 12 years old. Since its founding in 2009, Anomia has sold over one million copies and is available in over 15 languages. Aaron Argueta CBD Specialist for Pets Aaron Argueta is a CBD Specialist for Pets and the Co-Founder of Bailey's CBD in Costa Mesa, California. With over five years of experience, Aaron and his team have extensive knowledge of the health benefits of CBD for cats and dogs and work closely with veterinarians to ensure products are safe for consumption. Aaron received his Associate degree from Golden West College. Kabita Giri Destiny Matrix Expert & Numerologist Kabita Giri is a Finland–Nepal–US based spiritualist specializing in Destiny Matrix, Numerology, Human Design, Tarot, and Vedic Astrology. Known online as “codingnumerology,” she has built a thriving digital community with 102k followers on Instagram and 184k on TikTok. Through her online storefront, Kabita offers a variety of intuitive and transformative readings focused on life purpose, karma, crisis-related questions, soul connections, and personal alignment. Her mission is to guide individuals toward living their most authentic and aligned lives. Kabita received a BBA in International Business from the Turku University of Applied Sciences in Finland. Stella Kirnos Competitive Ballroom Dancer Stella Kirnos is a competitive ballroom dancer based in the Bay Area of San Francisco. She began dancing at the age of 5 and quickly fell in love with the elegance, athleticism, and storytelling aspects of ballroom dance. Stella trains extensively in the Latin dances of Cha Cha, Jive, Rumba, Samba and the Paso Doble. Her favorite aspect of dance is performing in competitions. She enjoys choreographing new routines, mentoring younger dancers, and thinking about how to get more boys involved in this sport! Lisa Marchiano Dream Interpreter and Certified Jungian Analyst Lisa Marchiano is a dream interpreter, certified Jungian analyst, licensed clinical social worker, and author based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She trained at the Inter-regional Society of Jungian Analysts and is on the faculty of C. G. Jung Institute of Philadelphia. Lisa is the co-host and co-creator of the popular depth psychology podcast This Jungian Life. She is also the author of "Dream Wise: Unlocking the Meaning of Your Dreams", "Motherhood: Facing and Finding Yourself", and "The Vital Spark: Reclaim Your Outlaw Energies and Find Your Feminine Fire". She has developed an approach to psychotherapy that is practical, creative and interactive to help people going through difficult times or life transitions. Lisa has a Master of International Affairs from Columbia University and a Master of Social Work from New York University. Rachel McMahon Personality Quiz Expert and Content Creator Rachel McMahon is a personality quiz expert and content creator based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. From 2017 to 2019, Rachel worked on BuzzFeed creating almost 700 personality quizzes gaining hundreds of thousands of views. Her top quiz brought in over 850,000 views and she was the second largest traffic-driver worldwide for BuzzFeed in 2018. She went on to create quiz content for other brands including Zimbio, TicToc by Bloomberg, Lifetherapy, Skin Kick, and Zenger News. For the past 5 years she has worked freelance for Netflix on their social media team and has worked for Disney branded television as well. Rachel has published a quiz book called What Kind of Quiz Are You and has a 6-book quiz series called Let’s Get Quizzical. She has a bachelor’s degree in Communication and Media Studies from Grand Valley State University. Halle A. Payne BS in Symbolic Systems, Stanford University Halle Payne graduated from Stanford in 2019 with a degree in Symbolic Systems. She received Honors in Ethics in Society upon completion of her Honors Thesis and was awarded Phi Beta Kappa the spring of her Junior year. Halle previously managed expert content creation at wikiHow and is passionate about finding the best experts in their fields and bringing their advice directly to wikiHow readers. In her free time, she enjoys writing music and traipsing around the wilderness! Liv Woodford Astrologist Liv Woodford is an Astrologist based in Asheville, North Carolina. With over 35 years of experience, Liv is certified in evolutionary astrology, six-star astrology, astromythology, and career astrology. Liv leads astrology and skywatching classes, teaching people how to do astrology and how to understand what to look for in the constellations in the sky. Liv has a BFA in Theater Arts from Boston University. Harry (Sai Thein Htet) Influencer & Content Creator Harry (Sai Thein Htet) is an educational content creator based in Myanmar. Harry is the creator of ‘English with Harry,’ a TikTok account with over 92K followers dedicated to making English learning fun, practical, and engaging. He has been working in various capacities teaching Engish since 2016. Harry specializes in both technical pronunciation and real-world communication, helping learners gain confidence in learning English. He is passionate about the intersection of education and technology, and teaches English to clients on a freelance basis outside of his social media work. He started his English with Harry accounts in 2019. He is an experienced Teacher, and also has a demonstrated history of working in the education management industry. He received a Bachelor’s degree in English Language and Literature from Lashio University in Myanmar. He received a professional certificate from Arizona State University in Teaching English as a Second Language in 2018. Rieka Lambert Dream Interpreter Rieka Lambert is a Dream Interpreter. Ren Fernandez-Kim LGBTQ+ and Cultural Anthropology Expert Ren Fernandez-Kim is a LGBTQ+ and Cultural Anthropology Expert. Valerie B My Little Pony Collector and Expert Valerie B is a My Little Pony Collector and Expert. Brooke B Doll, Toy, and My Little Pony Collector Brooke B is a Doll, Toy, and My Little Pony Collector. Kathleen Ballos Crafting and DIY Expert Kathleen Ballos is a Crafting and DIY Expert. Anthony Russo Roblox Expert Anthony Russo is a Roblox expert based in Florida. With over 10 years of experience, Anthony is a Roblox content creator and developer known online as RussoPlays. He is best known for his gameplay videos on Roblox experiences in the simulator genre and for his spending of Robux, and he has nearly 3 million followers on YouTube. He is also one of three main hosts of the RB Battles Championship. Keegan Byington My Little Pony Collector and Fandom Expert Keegan Byington is a My Little Pony Collector and Fandom Expert. Zoe Stoller Licensed Social Worker and LGBTQ+ Identity Expert Zoe Stoller is a Licensed Social Worker and LGBTQ+ Identity Expert. Rene Charest English Warbow and Ancient Weaponry Expert Rene Charest is a English Warbow and Ancient Weaponry Expert. Nicole and Lee Smith Historical European Martial Arts Experts Nicole and Lee Smith is a Historical European Martial Arts Experts. Mary Spohn European Swordsmanship and Fencing Expert Mary Spohn is a European Swordsmanship and Fencing Expert. Career & Life Coaching John Keegan Dating Coach John Keegan is a Dating Coach and motivational speaker based in New York City. With over 10 years of professional experience, he runs The Awakened Lifestyle, where he uses his expertise in dating, attraction, and social dynamics to help people find love. He teaches and holds dating workshops internationally, from Los Angeles to London and from Rio de Janeiro to Prague. His work has been featured in the New York Times, Humans of New York, and Men's Health. Seth Hall Life Coach Seth T. Hall (ICF ACC, CLC, and MNLP) is a Certified Life Coach and Founder of Transformational Solutions, a Los Angeles-based life-coaching company that helps people achieve their toughest goals, find their own voice, and think outside the box. He has been a life coach for over 10 years, specializing in personal development, relationships, career and finance, and wellness. He has helped his clients break the negative cycles in their lives and replace them with a positive, proactive mindset. Seth believes that everyone has the potential to live a fulfilling and rewarding life, and works passionately to help them reach their full potential. With a deep understanding of how our minds work and the power of positive thinking, he encourages his clients to find their unique paths in life and find success on their own terms. He is a certified master practitioner of Neuro-Linguistic Programming, a featured co-author for WikiHow, and co-author of "The Mountain Method”, “The Happy Tiger”, and “The V.I.S.I.O.N.S. Program”. Tami Claytor Etiquette Coach Tami Claytor is an Etiquette Coach, Image Consultant, and the Owner of Always Appropriate Image and Etiquette Consulting in New York, New York. With over 20 years of experience, Tami specializes in teaching etiquette classes to individuals, students, companies, and community organizations. Tami has spent decades studying cultures through her extensive travels across five continents and has created cultural diversity workshops to promote social justice and cross-cultural awareness. She holds a BA in Economics with a concentration in International Relations from Clark University. Tami studied at the Ophelia DeVore School of Charm and the Fashion Institute of Technology, where she earned her Image Consultant Certification. Imad Jbara Dating Coach Imad Jbara is a Dating Coach for NYC Wingwoman LLC, a relationship coaching service based in New York City. 'NYC Wingwoman' offers matchmaking, wingwoman services, 1-on-1 Coaching, and intensive weekend bootcamps. Imad services 100+ clients, men and women, to improve their dating lives through authentic communication skills. He has a BA in Psychology from the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth. Cher Gopman Dating Coach Cher Gopman is the Founder of NYC Wingwoman LLC, a date coaching service based in New York City. 'NYC Wingwoman' offers matchmaking, wingwoman services, 1-on-1 Coaching, and intensive weekend bootcamps. Cher is a Certified Life Coach, a former psychiatric nurse, and her work has been featured on Inside Edition, Fox, ABC, VH1, and The New York Post. Laura Bilotta Dating Coach & Matchmaker Laura Bilotta is a Dating Coach, Matchmaker, and the Founder of Single in the City, her dating and relationship coaching service based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. With over 18 years of experience, she focuses on helping singles date more intentionally, encouraging them to let go of negative patterns so that they can attract the love that they deserve. Her experience, skills, and insights have led to thousands of successfully united over 65,000 singles through events and one-on-one matchmaking coaching sessions. She has been the host of The Dating and Relationship Show on Global News Radio 640 Toronto (AM640) for 6 years and is known as The Hookup Queen of Clubhouse; her popular singles club, Single in the City, has over 95.5K members who regularly join in weekly dating and relationship-focused rooms. Lisa Shield Dating Coach Lisa Shield is a love and relationship expert based in Los Angeles. She has a Master's degree in Spiritual Psychology and is a certified life and relationship coach with over 17 years of experience. Lisa has been featured in The Huffington Post, Buzzfeed, LA Times, and Cosmopolitan. Eddy Baller Dating Coach Eddy Baller is a men’s dating coach and founder of Conquer and Win, a Vancouver-based service that helps men break free from loneliness and meet the women they truly want. Since 2011, he has coached men to overcome approach anxiety, spark real attraction, and build meaningful relationships—without relying on dating apps, gimmicks, or luck. Through both online sessions and in-person coaching, Eddy gives live feedback as clients meet women in everyday places, making confidence feel natural and conversations effortless. His mission is simple: to help men get into meaningful, long-term relationships. Sarah Schewitz, PsyD Licensed Psychologist Sarah Schewitz, Psy.D. is a licensed clinical psychologist by the California Board of Psychology with over 10 years of experience. She received her Psy.D. from the Florida Institute of Technology in 2011. She is the founder of Couples Learn, an online psychology practice helping couples and individuals improve and change their patterns in love and relationships. Connell Barrett Dating Coach Connell Barrett is a Relationship Expert and the Founder and Executive Coach of Dating Transformation in New York City. Connell has over five years of experience as an international coach who helps men connect with women by unlocking their best, true, most confident selves. He is the author of the Amazon bestseller “Dating Sucks but You Don’t,” and has appeared on Good Morning America, the "Today" show, Access Hollywood, and in Best Life, Cosmopolitan, and The Oprah Magazine. In 2019 he was named Datezie.com's “New York City’s Best Male Dating Coach." Maya Diamond, MA Relationship Coach Maya Diamond is a Dating and Relationship Coach in Berkeley, CA. She has 15 years of experience helping singles stuck in frustrating dating patterns find internal security, heal their past, and create healthy, loving, and lasting partnerships. She received her Master's in Somatic Psychology from the California Institute of Integral Studies in 2009. Joshua Pompey Relationship Expert Joshua Pompey is a Relationship Expert and Founder of Next Evolution Matchmaking (NEM) based in New York City, NY. With over 15 years in the industry, Joshua helps his clients navigate online dating and has a success rate of over 99%. His work has been featured in CNBC, Good Morning America, Wired, and Refinery29 and he has been referred to as the best online dater in the world. Annie Lin, MBA Life & Career Coach Annie Lin is the founder of New York Life Coaching, a life and career coaching service based in Manhattan.  Her holistic approach, combining elements from both Eastern and Western wisdom traditions, has made her a highly sought-after personal coach. Annie’s work has been featured in Elle Magazine, NBC News, New York Magazine, and BBC World News. She holds an MBA degree from Oxford Brookes University. Annie is also the founder of the New York Life Coaching Institute which offers a comprehensive life coach certification program. Shannon O'Brien, MA, EdM Life & Career Coach Shannon O'Brien is the Founder and Principal Advisor of Whole U. (a career and life strategy consultancy based in Boston, MA).  Through advising, workshops and e-learning Whole U. empowers people to pursue their life's work and live a balanced, purposeful life. Shannon has been ranked as the #1 Career Coach and #1 Life Coach in Boston, MA by Yelp reviewers. She has been featured on Boston.com, Boldfacers, and the UR Business Network. She received a Master's of Technology, Innovation, & Education from Harvard University. Leah Morris Life Coach Leah Morris is a Life and Relationship Transition coach and the owner of Life Remade, a holistic personal coaching service. With over three years as a professional coach, she specializes in guiding people as they move through both short-term and long-term life transitions. Leah holds a BA in Organizational Communication from California State University, Chico and is a certified Transformational Life Coach through the Southwest Institute for Healing Arts. Kari Samuels Intuitive Counselor & Happiness Coach Kari Samuels is an international Intuitive Counselor and Happiness Coach. With more than 21 years of experience, she specializes in intuition, energy healing, numerology, and astrology. Kari assists people in reclaiming their innate intuitive gifts and restore well-being through self-empowerment. She has a popular Youtube channel and has been featured on Hay House Radio and other podcasts. Mark Rosenfeld Dating & Relationship Coach Mark Rosenfeld is a Dating and Relationship Coach based in Norman Park, Australia. He founded his coaching business, Make Him Yours, in 2015. Mark specializes in helping women find, attract, and keep extraordinary relationships. He has been featured in Style Magazine, Thought Catalog, Elite Daily, News.com.au, and The Good Men Project. Mark’s dating videos have received over 60 million views, and his book “Make Him Yours – Beating the Odds of Modern Dating” was a best-seller on Amazon upon its release. Christina Jay, NLP Matchmaker & Certified Life Coach Christina Jay is a Matchmaker and Certified Life Coach based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Christina is the founder of Preferred Match (preferredmatch.ca), her matchmaking service that finds love for successful and elite individuals. She has over 10 years of coaching experience, earned her NLP (Neuro-linguistic Programming) certification through NLP Canada Training, and has a BA in Business Administration from Brock University. Michelle Shahbazyan, MS, MA Life Coach, Author, and Speaker Michelle Shahbazyan is a Life Coach, Author, and Speaker based in Los Angeles, California. She is the Founder of The LA Life Coach, a concierge life, family, and career coaching service. She has over 15 years of experience with life coaching, consulting, motivational speaking, and matchmaking. Michelle has helped thousands of clients achieve peace, fulfillment, and a healthier mindset. Her ultimate goal is to provide her clients with the tools, perspectives, and resources needed to create the life they desire. Michelle specializes in supporting individuals and couples with a wide array of concerns, including depression, anxiety, love and relationship issues, ADHD, grief, stress, anger management, and career planning. Her approach is informed by neuroscience, anthropology, sociology, and behavioral biology, ensuring that the strategies she develops with clients are both effective and enduring. She has a BA in Applied Psychology and an MS in Building Construction and Technology Management from Georgia Tech University, and a MA in Psychology with an emphasis on Marriage and Family Therapy from Phillips Graduate University. Erika Kaplan Matchmaker Erika Kaplan is a Dating Coach and Matchmaker for Three Day Rule, an exclusive matchmaking company across fifteen cities in the United States. With over eleven years of experience, Erika specializes in helping singles find quality matches through date coaching and premium matchmaking services. Erika graduated from Penn State with a Bachelor’s degree in Public Relations. She worked for Rolling Stone, Us Weekly, and Men’s Journal before leaving publishing to pursue her passion for connecting people. Erika has been featured on Lifetime, the Philadelphia Inquirer, and CBS as well as in Thrillist, Elite Daily, Men’s Health, Fast Company, and Refinery29. Adrian Klaphaak, CPCC Career Coach Adrian Klaphaak is a career coach and founder of A Path That Fits, a mindfulness-based boutique career and life coaching company in the San Francisco Bay Area. He is also an accredited Co-Active Professional Coach (CPCC). Klaphaak has used his training with the Coaches Training Institute, Hakomi Somatic Psychology, and Internal Family Systems Therapy (IFS) to help thousands of people build successful careers and live more purposeful lives. Nicolette Tura, MA Empowerment Coach Nicolette Tura is an Empowerment Coach based in Asheville, NC, and San Francisco, California. She is dedicated to helping individuals navigate major life transitions—divorce, grief, career shifts, and health challenges—with clarity, confidence, and resilience. She blends psychology, mindfulness, and somatic healing to guide clients in breaking free from self-limiting beliefs and stepping into their power. As the founder of the nonprofit Celestial Wellness Network and co-creator of the music meditation project The Feather and Stone, Nicolette integrates mind, body, and spirit in her work. She is a certified Reiki practitioner, astrologer, and tarot reader, studying under three master teachers, including Kaypacha. Her background includes working as a Therapy Associate in neurology, supporting patients in their healing journeys. Nicolette holds a 500-hour RYT certification and is a NASM Certified Corrective Exercise Specialist, bringing a holistic approach to transformation. She received a BA in Sociology from the University of California, Berkeley, and a Master’s degree is Sociology from San Jose State University. With over a decade of experience in nonprofit leadership and personal coaching, she empowers clients to embrace their authentic selves, heal deeply, and create a life of purpose and abundance. Pete Canalichio Brand Strategist & Licensing Expert Pete Canalichio is a Brand Strategist, Licensing Expert, and Founder of BrandAlive. With nearly 30 years of experience at companies such as Coca-Cola and Newell Brands, he specializes in helping brands find the most authentic parts of their story to build a brand strategy. Pete holds an MBA from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a BS in Physics from the United States Naval Academy. In 2006, he won an MVP Award from Newell Brands for his contributions to their Global Licensing department. He’s also penned the award-winning book, Expand, Grow, Thrive. Amy Chan Relationship Coach Amy Chan is a Relationship Coach based in New York, New York. She is the Founder of Renew Breakup Bootcamp, a retreat that takes a scientific and spiritual approach to healing after the end of a relationship. She has over 12 years of experience helping clients work on their relationships with strategies rooted in the psychology and science of relationships and personal development. Her team of psychologists and coaches at Renew Breakup Bootcamp has helped hundreds of individuals, and the Bootcamp has been featured on CNN, Vogue, the New York Times, and Fortune. Her book based on her work, Breakup Bootcamp, was published in 2020 and was featured by the New York Times. Emily Christensen Spiritual Advisor & Founder of Rainbow Raaja Emily Christensen is an award-winning Holistic Medicine Practitioner, Shamanic Spiritual Advisor, Reiki Master, and Founder of Rainbow Raaja and the internationally acclaimed "Rainbows Rising" Podcast based out of Southern California and Pierce County, Washington. Emily has over ten years of experience as a Massage Therapist and Shaman using life coaching, tarot cards, crystal therapy, light work (reiki, light codes, energy therapy), sound healing and shamanic healing. She received her Reiki Master training from the Hands on Healing Institute. Emily is also a certified Bodywork Therapist by the California Massage Therapy Council and an Ordained Shamanic Minister with the Universal Life Church. She specializes in one on one virtual sessions focused on personal transformation, spiritual ascension and self empowerment. Lauren Krasny Executive, Strategic, & Personal Coach Lauren Krasny is a Leadership and Executive Coach and the Founder of Reignite Coaching, her professional and personal coaching service based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She also currently coaches for the LEAD Program at Stanford University Graduate School of Business and is a former Digital Health Coach for Omada Health and Modern Health. Lauren received her coaching training from the Coach Training Institute (CTI). She holds a BA in Psychology from the University of Michigan. Collette Gee Relationship Coach & Certified Violence Prevention Specialist Collette Gee is a Relationship Coach, Certified Violence Prevention Specialist, the Author of "Finding Happily… No Rules, No Frogs, No Pretending." Focusing on creating meaningful romantic relationships, Collette uses her experience having worked in the mental health industry as a psych nurse to conduct relationship coaching, online courses, and workshops to help women and men find lasting love. Prior to Collette's coaching business, she worked in the mental health field as a psych nurse which has helped inform her practice to create and sustain happy, healthy meaningful romantic relationships. Her work has been featured on TLC, London Live, the Huffington Post, and CNN. Jennifer Butler, MSW Love & Empowerment Coach Jennifer Butler is a Love & Transformation Coach and the Owner of JennJoyCoaching, a life coaching business based in Miami, Florida, although Jennifer works with clients all over the world. Jennifer’s work centers around empowering women who are navigating any stage of the divorce or breakup process. She has over four years of life coaching experience. She is also the co-host of the Deep Chats Podcast along with Leah Morris and the host of season 2 “Divorce and Other Things You Can Handle” by Worthy. Her work has been featured in ESME, DivorceForce, and Divorced Girl Smiling. She received her Masters of Social Work (MSW) from New York University. She is also a Certified Health Coach, a Communications & Life Mastery Specialist, and a Certified Conscious Uncoupling and Calling in “the One” coach. Lauren Sanders Matchmaker & Dating Coach Lauren Sanders is a Professional Matchmaker, Dating Coach, and the Founder of Dating for the Soul. With over four years of experience, she specializes in helping singles find love. Lauren is also the author of Lipstick Faith: A Collection of Inspirational Writings and Life Lessons, You Deserve the World, Rainbows and Strawberries: 100 Devotions for the Brighter Side of Life, and Let's Go Outside Mommy. Lauren holds BS from Dillard University and a Masters from The University of North Georgia. Maria Avgitidis Matchmaker & Dating Expert Maria Avgitidis is the CEO & Matchmaker of Agape Match, a matchmaking service based out of New York City. For over a decade, she has successfully combined four generations of family matchmaking tradition with modern relationship psychology and search techniques to ensure her professional clientele are introduced to their ultimate match. Maria and Agape Match have been featured in The New York Times, The Financial Times, Fast Company, CNN, Esquire, Elle, Reuters, Vice, and Thrillist. Jessica George, MA, CHt Certified Professional Master Life Coach Jessica George is a Marriage and Family Therapist, Certified Professional Master Life Coach, and Co-Founder of Evolve Therapy Coaching based in Glendale, California. With more than 20 years of experience, she specializes in hybrid therapy and coaching services, couples counseling, and clinical hypnotherapy. Jessica holds a Bachelor’s degree from The University of California, Santa Barbara and an MA in Counseling Psychology and Talk Therapy from Ryokan College. Jessica is trained in the Imago technique and the Gottman method for couples therapy. She also earned a Professional Life-Coach Certification from The Fowler Academy and an Infinite Possibilities Relationship Certification. She is a member of the International Board of Coaches and Practitioners (IBCP). Sydney Axelrod Certified Life Coach Sydney Axelrod is a certified life coach and the owner of Sydney Axelrod LLC, a life coaching business focused on professional and personal development. Through one-on-one coaching, digital courses, and group workshops, Sydney works with clients to discover their purpose, navigate life transitions, and set and accomplish goals. Sydney has over 1,000 hours of relevant coaching certifications and holds a BBA in Marketing and Finance from Emory University. Desiree Panlilio Teen Life Coach Desiree Panlilio is a Teen Life Coach and the Owner of Encouraging Teens, LLC. With over three years of experience, she specializes in helping teens and young adults define roles, set goals, develop healthy academic and personal habits, grow in leadership potential, and create their life paths. Desiree holds a BSN in Nursing from The University of Victoria and an MA in Human Services Counseling with a concentration in Life Coaching from Liberty University. Kate Dreyfus Holistic Love Coach & Intuitive Healer Kate Dreyfus is a dedicated Holistic Love Coach, Holistic Empowerment Coach, Heart-Centered Expert, Intuitive Healer, Workshop Facilitator, and Owner of Evolve & Empower. She has more than ten years of experience supporting her clients successfully entering exclusive, romantic relationships within the USA, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Europe. Kate is devoted to helping others through personal growth and transformation, success in dating and romance, and healing and rebuilding after a breakup. She is also a member of The Biofield Institute, the Healing Touch Professional Association, and the Energy Medicine Professional Association. Kate holds a BA in Psychology from San Francisco State University. Lynn Kirkham Public Speaking Coach Lynn Kirkham is a Professional Public Speaker and Founder of Yes You Can Speak, a San Francisco Bay Area-based public speaking educational business empowering thousands of professionals to take command of whatever stage they've been given - from job interviews, boardroom talks to TEDx and large conference platforms. Lynn was chosen as the official TEDx Berkeley speaker coach for the last four years and has worked with executives at Google, Facebook, Intuit, Genentech, Intel, VMware, and others. Guy Reichard Executive Life Coach Guy Reichard is a Self Leadership Coach and Executive Resilience Builder who empowers high-achieving professionals, executives, and business owners to lead authentically with calm, clarity, confidence, and compassion. He is the founder of HeartRich Self Leadership & Resilience Coaching, where he helps his clients navigate challenges, overcome fears and self-doubt, and grow into purposeful, values-driven leaders. With a heart-centered, science-backed, and trauma-informed approach, Guy guides his clients to connect with their Authentic Self, align with their core values, and create meaningful change in their lives and leadership. His work focuses on enhancing resilience, emotional intelligence, presence, and well-being while addressing barriers like perfectionism, impostor syndrome, people-pleasing, and tough inner critics. With over 15 years and 4000+ of coaching experience and 20 years in consulting and business development, Guy brings a unique blend of empathy, insight, and strategic perspective to help his clients thrive. He received his professional coaching certification from the International Coaching Federation and is an EZRAx Executive Leadership Coach. He received an MBA and a BA in Psychology from York University. Tracey Rogers, MA Certified Life Coach Tracey L. Rogers is a Certified Life Coach and Professional Astrologer based in Philadelphia. Tracey has over 10 years of life coaching and astrology experience. Her work has been featured on nationally syndicated radio, as well as online platforms such as Oprah.com. She is certified as a Coach by the Life Purpose Institute, and she has an MA in International Education from George Washington University. Nicole Moore Love & Relationship Coach Nicole Moore is a Love and Relationship Coach and the Founder and CEO of Love Works Method, a private coaching and digital course service for women looking to find the right partner. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in body language and helping others take control of their dating life, attract a partner, and build a strong relationship. Nicole has been featured in numerous publications such as Cosmopolitan, Forbes, and USA Today. She also hosts Love Works with Nicole Moore, a podcast for modern women wanting love, dating, and relationship advice. Nicole holds a BA in Public Relations and Spanish from Syracuse University and a Certificate in Personal Coaching from New York University. Maureen Taylor Communications Coach Maureen Taylor is the CEO and Founder of SNP Communications, a leadership communications company based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She has been helping leaders, founders, and innovators in all sectors hone their messaging and delivery for almost 30 years, and has worked with leaders and teams at Google, Facebook, Airbnb, SAP, Salesforce, and Spotify. Meredith Walters, MBA Certified Career Coach Meredith Walters is a Certified Career Coach based in Decatur, Georgia. Meredith's coaching program helps people develop the skills they need to find meaningful, fulfilling work. Meredith has over 12 years of career and life coaching experience, including conducting training at Emory University's Goizueta School of Business and the US Peace Corps. She is a former Member of the Board of Directors of ICF-Georgia. She earned her coaching credentials from New Ventures West. She received a BA in English Literature from the University of California at Berkeley and a Master of Business Administration from the University of San Francisco. Devin Jones Career Coach Devin Jones is the creator of “The Soul Career," an online career incubator for women. She is certified in the CliftonStrengths assessment and works with women to clarify their purpose and create meaningful careers. Devin received her BA from Stanford University in 2013. Alexandra Janelli Certified Hypnotherapist & Anxiety and Stress Management Coach Alexandra Janelli is an award-winning hypnotherapist, life coach, and founder of the AI-powered mental wellness app Go Burble, based in Philadelphia, PA. With over 14 years of experience, she is also the creator of Theta Spring Hypnosis and the former owner of Modrn Sanctuary, an acclaimed wellness spa recognized as Best in Philly 2024. Alexandra has supported high-profile clients, led corporate workshops, and developed transformational programs such as the Manifestation Mindset and The Art of Not Drinking. She is dedicated to making mental wellness accessible, affordable, and rooted in science-backed subconscious change. She has been featured on MTV, Elle Magazine, Oprah Magazine, Men's Fitness, Crain’s New York, Dossier Journal, The New Yorker, and Time Out Chicago. Alexandra graduated from the Hypnosis Motivation Institute with an Advanced Training Graduate Diploma in Hypnotherapy and Handwriting Analysis. She is also a Certified Life Coach through the International Coach Federation (ICF). Suzanna Mathews Dating & Relationship Coach Suzanna Mathews is a Dating and Relationship Coach and the Founder of The Date Maven. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in creating mindset tools, social strategies, and digital strategies that help her clients elevate dating and deepen connections. Suzanna holds a BA in Communications from Bethel College, North Newton, and an MA in Theater and Dramatic Arts from Wichita State University. Cristina Morara Dating Coach Cristina Morara is a Professional Matchmaker, Dating Coach, Relationship Expert, and the Founder of Stellar Hitch Private Matchmaking, a luxury matchmaking service based in Los Angeles that serves clients nationwide and internationally. As a former casting director, Cristina specializes in finding the perfect partner through her exclusive global network and detailed, warm approach. Cristina holds a BA in Communications and Psychology from Villanova University. Stellar Hitch has been featured in the Huffington Post, Chelsea Handler’s Netflix documentary, ABC News, the Tonight Show, Voyage LA, and the Celebrity Perspective. Kirsten Parker, MFA Mindset & Action Coach Kirsten Parker is a Mindset and Action Coach based in her hometown of Los Angeles, California. She helps high achievers overcome stress and self-doubt. She specializes in increasing one's confidence and clarity by incorporating tools from positive psychology, mindful habit change, and self-regulation into her coaching. She is a Certified HeartMath Practitioner trained in Stress, Anxiety, and Intelligent Energy Management along with Emotional Intelligence and the Science of Self-Acceptance. She also holds an MFA from Yale University School of Drama in Stage Management. Julianne Cantarella Dating & Relationship Coach Julianne Cantarella is a Dating Coach, Certified Life Coach, Licensed Social Worker, and the CEO and President of New Jersey's Matchmaker. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in helping women heal from a heartbreak and create healthy long-term relationships. Julianne created a comprehensive transformational date coaching program From First Date to Soulmate™ that has helped hundreds of women find love. She holds a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) from Ramapo College of New Jersey and a Master of Social Work (MSW) from Fordham University. Julianne has contributed to numerous media such as Your Tango Online Magazine, 24Seven Wellness Magazine, and Talk of The Town Magazine. She has also been featured as a relationship expert on CBS, iHeartRadio, and PBS “This Emotional Life Project.” Katherine Kirkinis, Ed.M., MA Career Coach & Psychotherapist Katherine Kirkinis is a Career Coach and Psychotherapist who has served as a career expert for Forbes, Medium, Best Life, and Working Mother Magazine, and as a diversity and inclusion expert for ATTN and Quartz. She specializes in working with issues of career, identity, and indecision. She has doctoral-level training in career counseling and career assessment and has worked with hundreds of clients to make career decisions through career assessments. She is pursuing a doctoral degree at The University of Albany, SUNY where her work focuses on diversity and inclusion, racism in the workplace, and racial identity. She is a published author and has been featured in academic journals as well as popular media outlets. Her research has been presented at 10+ national APA conferences since 2013. Stefanie Safran Dating Coach & Matchmaker Stefanie Safran is a Dating Coach, Matchmaker, and the Owner of Stef in the City, a Matchmaking and Dating Coaching business focused on an honest and hands on approach. Stefanie labels herself as “Chicago's Introductionista®” as she has over 15 years of experience in the matchmaking industry. Her work has been featured on various media such as: ABC7, NBC5, CBS2, WGN, FOX, The Chicago Tribune, The Chicago Sun Times, The HuffPost, and Refinery29. She holds a MBA in marketing and branding from Loyola University in addition to her BA from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Michelle Jacoby Matchmaker & Dating Coach Michelle Jacoby is a Matchmaker, Dating Coach, and the Founder and CEO of DC Matchmaking, a privately owned, boutique matchmaking company based in Washington, DC, Maryland, and Virginia. She is also the Co-Founder of The Matchmakers Alliance, an international industry organization for matchmakers. With over 12 years of experience, Michelle specializes in one-on-one matchmaking and group coaching to help singles find healthy, lasting relationships. She has been featured in several media publications such as The Washington Post, Self, and NPR. Michelle holds a BA in Psychology from George Washington University. She is also a Certified Matchmaker from The Matchmakers Institute as well as a Certified Body Language Expert from The Body Language Institute. Sheila A. Anderson Certified Image Consultant & International Branding Icon Sheila A. Anderson is a Certified Image Consultant, International Branding Icon, and the Founder of Image Power Play, an impression management and personal branding company. With over three decades of experience, she specializes in empowering corporate professionals to raise their personal image to meet the value of their brand. Sheila is a Certified Image Consultant with The Image Resource Network and a Certified Universal Style Consultant with The Universal Style International. Sheila is a member of the C-Suite Network Advisors and the author of the book, I.C.U., The Comprehensive Guide to Breathing Life Back Into Your Personal Brand. Rahti Gorfien, PCC Life Coach Rahti Gorfien is a Life Coach and the Founder of Creative Calling Coaching, LLC. She specializes in working with artists, entrepreneurs, and college students in creative fields. Rahti is accredited as a Professional Certified Coach (PCC) by the International Coach Federation, an ACCG Accredited ADHD Coach by the ADD Coach Academy, and a Career Specialty Services Provider (CSS). In addition, she has personal experience in the fields she coaches - she is an alumnus of the New York University Graduate Acting program and has been a working theater artist for over 30 years. She was voted one of the 15 Best Life Coaches in New York City by Expertise in 2018. Jonathan Soormaghen Career Coach Jonathan Soormaghen is a Career Coach and Founder of Resume Advisor, a career counseling firm that specializes in creating personalized products such as resumes, CVs, cover letters, and online branding tools to propel clients toward their next career milestone. Jonathan holds a BA in Political Economy from the University of California, Berkeley, where he was honored to serve as the Valedictory speaker of general commencement. Prior to founding Resume Advisor, he worked in management consulting and finance at companies including Accenture, Target, and Ernst & Young. Jonathan's clients have landed job offers from leading firms including Netflix, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Uber, Deloitte, KMPG, Accenture, and Merrill Lynch. Alessandra Conti Celebrity Matchmaker & Dating Coach Alessandra Conti is a Celebrity Matchmaker, Dating Coach, and Co-Founder of Matchmakers In The City, a personal Matchmaking firm headquartered in Los Angeles, California. Alessandra is a Matchmaker behind MTV's, “Are You The One”, and is the go-to Celebrity Matchmaker for shows like NBC's Access Hollywood, and CBS's Face The Truth. Her dating and relationship advice has been featured on Forbes, Elite Daily, The New Yorker, The LA Times, and Fox News. For nearly 10 years, Alessandra has worked with clients ranging from celebrities to young professionals and leads a team of matchmakers responsible for hundreds of marriages through their knowledge of interpersonal relationships, body language, and lie detection. She holds a BA in Communications from American University and is a Matchmaking Institute Certified Matchmaker (CMM). Lesly Kahn, MFA Acting Teacher & Coach Lesly Kahn is an acting teacher and coach based in Los Angeles, California. She is the founder and owner of Lesly Kahn & Company, Actor Training, which focuses on preparing actors for employment in film, television and theatre. With well over 30 years of experience, Ms. Kahn has coached hundreds of actors who have become household names. She also ran the BFA Program in Acting at Marymount Manhattan College, and worked in television as well as New York and regional theatre. Lesly holds a BFA from New York University and an MFA from The Yale School of Drama. Katrina Georgiou Career Coach Katrina Georgiou is a career coach and the founder of Katrina Georgiou Coaching based in Silicon Valley. Katrina has experience helping individuals find new careers as well as career advancement, including resume writing, interview preparation, salary negotiation, and performance reviews. Trained in the co-active method from the Coaches Training Institute (CTI), Katrina uses personalized communication and leadership strategies to support her clients in building successful and fulfilling careers. She also has a successful career in the tech industry, and currently serves as the Senior Director of People Strategy at Box. Crista Beck Dating Coach & Matchmaker Crista Beck is a Dating and Relationship Coach and Matchmaker based in Austin, TX. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in helping people become open to love and find a partner. Crista has been featured in numerous media sources such as ABC, NBC, Fox, and TEDx. She is also the author of the book, Break The Glass Slipper: Free Yourself from Fairy Tale Fantasies and Find True Love in Real Life. Crista holds a BS in Communication Studies with a focus on Interpersonal Communication from The University of Texas at Austin. Crista closed her coaching and matchmaking business to focus on other ventures in July 2024. Amy Wong Leadership & Transformational Coach Amy Eliza Wong is a Leadership and Transformational Coach and the Founder of Always on Purpose, a private practice for individuals and executives looking for help in increasing personal well-being and success and in transforming work cultures, developing leaders, and improving retention. With over 20 years of experience, Amy coaches one-on-one and conducts workshops and keynotes for businesses, medical practices, non-profits, and universities. Based in the San Francisco Bay Area, Amy is a regular instructor at Stanford Continuing Studies, holds an MA in Transpersonal Psychology from Sofia University, a certification in Transformational Life Coaching from Sofia University, and a certification in Conversational Intelligence from CreatingWE Institute. Rachel Clissold Certified Life Coach Rachel Clissold is a Life Coach and Consultant in Sydney, Australia. With over six years of coaching experience and over 17 years of corporate training, Rachel specializes in helping business leaders move through internal roadblocks, gain more freedom and clarity, and optimize their company’s efficiency and productivity. Rachel uses a wide range of techniques including coaching, intuitive guidance, neuro-linguistic programming, and holistic biohacking to help clients overcome fear, break through limitations, and bring their epic visions to life. Rachel is an acclaimed Reiki Master Practitioner, Qualified practitioner in NLP, EFT, Hypnosis & Past Life Regression. She has created events with up to 500 people around Australia, United Kingdom, Bali, and Costa Rica. Erin Conlon, PCC, JD Executive Life Coach Erin Conlon is an Executive Life Coach, the Founder of Erin Conlon Coaching, and the host of the podcast "This is Not Advice." She specializes in aiding leaders and executives to thrive in their career and personal lives. In addition to her private coaching practice, she teaches and trains coaches and develops and revises training materials to be more diverse, equitable, and inclusive.  She holds a BA in Communications and History and a JD from The University of Michigan. Erin is a Professional Certified Coach with The International Coaching Federation. Alyson Garrido, PCC Career Coach Alyson Garrido is an International Coach Federation accredited Professional Certified Coach (PCC), Facilitator, and Speaker. Using a strengths-based approach, she supports her clients with job search and career advancement.  Alyson provides coaching for career direction, interview preparation, salary negotiation, and performance reviews as well as customized communication and leadership strategies. She is a Founding Partner of the Systemic Coach Academy of New Zealand. Melody Godfred, JD Career Coach Melody Godfred is a Career Coach, Entrepreneur, and Founder of Write In Color, a full-service resume and career development company that specializes in developing compelling personal narratives and brands. With over ten years of experience, Melody has worked with clients at entertainment and media companies including Apple, Disney, Fox, Netflix, Riot Games, Viacom, and Warner Bros, among others. The Muse invited Melody and Write In Color to serve as one of its 30 trusted career counselors (out of 3,000) to provide one-on-one coaching and resume services to the platform's more than four million active users. Melody earned a JD from Loyola Marymount University and BS from the University of Southern California. Louie Felix Dating Coach & Matchmaker Louie Felix is a Dating Coach and Matchmaker, and the founder and CEO of Matchmaking VIP, a company which provides concierge-level matchmaking services to clients around the world. He is also the COO of Agape Matchmaking based in New York City. With almost 16 years of professional matchmaking and dating coaching experience, Louie has served as CEO for the United States' two largest matchmaking companies serving over 50,000 clients. He has been featured as an expert matchmaker for shows on E! Entertainment Television, WeTV and the CW. He was also recently acknowledged as a top 5 worldwide matchmaker by both the International Dating Conference and the Matchmakers Alliance. Louie was also selected as one of America's top 10 Relationship Experts for the Great Love Debate National Tour. Michael McCutcheon, PhD Career Coach & Psychologist Dr. Michael McCutcheon is a career coach, psychologist, and award-winning public speaker who specializes in procrastination elimination, goal achievement, and increasing life satisfaction. With a background as a counseling psychologist, he guides clients toward becoming more aware of their desires and anxieties to break old patterns, create new habits, and achieve life-changing results. He also helps clients improve organization skills, embark on a new career, get promoted, get admitted into graduate schools, and transition from school to the working world. He is a published author and lecturer in graduate psychology courses at New York University (NYU), a position he has twice won the Teaching Award (2014 & 2019). His work has appeared in the press as a lifestyle and career expert for The Washington Post/The Associated Press, The New York Post, Scholastic, Lifehacker, and The Coca-Cola Company. He has served as a contributing writer for Out Magazine and featured panelist on National Public Radio (NPR). Dan Klein Improvisation Coach Dan Klein is an improvisation expert and coach who teaches at the Stanford University Department of Theater and Performance Studies as well as at Stanford's Graduate School of Business. Dan has been teaching improvisation, creativity, and storytelling to students and organizations around the world for over 20 years. Dan received his BA from Stanford University in 1991. Michael Stern Life Coach Michael Stern is a life coach and the owner of Integral Alignment, a coaching and training business focused on a holistic approach to optimizing one's health, work, love, play, and spirituality. Michael began his professional training in 2011 as an Integral Spiritual Mentor through One Spirit Learning Alliance, and has been certified as both a hatha yoga instructor and an Emotional Intelligence Coach through GolemanEI. In addition to his private 1:1 and groupwork, he has hosted workshops with thought leaders such as Frederic Laloux, Charles Eisenstein, and Thomas Hübl. Michael holds a BA in Spanish Language from Vanderbilt University and lives in Portland, Maine. Kirin Dejonckheere Certified Life Coach Kirin Dejonckheere is a Certified Life Coach based in New York City, NY. Kirin provides both online and in-person 1:1 coaching sessions. She tailors each program to her client’s needs, personality, and desired outcomes. In addition to receiving her Life Coach Practitioner certification in 2020, Kirin is personally mentored by Rob Dial is also a NASM Certified Personal Trainer and Nutrition Coach. JT Tran Dating Coach JT Tran is a Dating Coach and a Dating Advice Columnist for LA Weekly and Baller Magazine. JT also runs the ABCs of Attraction, a dating boot camp where he specializes in coaching Asian men and women on how to navigate the cultural and social sensitivities associated with Asian dating culture. With over ten years of dating coaching experience, JT has presented dating and relationship advice as it relates to cultural issues at Harvard University, Yale University, and the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. His work has been featured in AsianWeek, New York, NU Asian Magazine, the Huffington Post, Channel News Asia, and Voice of America News TV. Colleen Campbell, PhD Career & Life Coach Dr. Colleen Campbell is the Founder and CEO of The Ignite Your Potential Centers, Career and Life Coaching based in the San Francisco Bay Area and Los Angeles. Colleen received her MA and PhD in Clinical Psychology from Sofia University and has been career coaching since 2008. Courtney Quinlan Matchmaker & Dating Coach Courtney Quinlan is a Matchmaker and Dating Coach and the Owner of Midwest Matchmaking. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in finding individuals a compatible partner, providing guidance throughout the dating process, and crafting events for singles in the Midwest. Courtney holds a BS in Broadcast Journalism from The University of Nebraska at Omaha. LeTisha Underwood Certified Professional Matchmaker LeTisha Underwood is a Certified Professional Matchmaker and the CEO of Two Hearts Exclusive Matchmaking Services. With more than five years of experience, she specializes in helping marriage-minded people find their life partners. LeTisha holds a Matchmaker Certification from The Global Love Institute. Chad Herst, CPCC Mindfulness Coach Chad Herst is the Executive Coach at Herst Wellness, a San Francisco-based wellness center focused on Mind/Body Coaching. Chad is an accredited Co-Active Professional Coach (CPCC) and he has been working in the wellness space for over 19 years, with experience as a yoga teacher, acupuncturist, and herbalist. He received his BA from Columbia University and his MS in Traditional Chinese Medicine from the Pacific College of Oriental Medicine. Candice Mostisser Dating Coach Candice Mostisser is a Dating Coach for NYC Wingwoman LLC, a date coaching service based in New York City. 'NYC Wingwoman' offers matchmaking, wingman/wingwoman services, 1-on-1 coaching, and intensive weekend bootcamps. She specializes in coaching others on best practices and strategies to succeed on first dates and in the online dating world. Jessica Elliott, ACC, CEC Certified Executive Coach Jessica Elliott is a Certified Executive Coach and multi-passionate entrepreneur. She's the founder of LIFETOX, where she hosts mindful experiences and retreats, and J Elliott Coaching, which she provides executive consulting for professionals, teams, and organizations. Jessica has had over fifteen years experience as an entrepreneur and over five years of executive coaching experience. She received her ACC (Associate Certified Coach) accreditation through the International Coaching Federation (ICF) and her CEC (Certified Executive Coach) accreditation through Royal Roads University. Julia McCurley Certified Professional Matchmaker Julia McCurley is a Certified Professional Matchmaker, Relationship Coach, and the CEO of Something More, Austin's premier matchmaking service. She has been creating happy couples in Austin for over 12 years and has helped hundreds of singles on their journey to finding love. Her blogs have been published on the Huffington Post, Good Men Project, SheKnows, Emlovz, and The Dating Truth. She also just published her first book, Game Set Match: A Professional Matchmaker's Advice on How to Win At the Game Of Love. Julia holds a BA in Business and Communications from The University of Puget Sound and received her Master Executive Matchmaker Certification from The Matchmaking Institute. Hardy Jean Dating Coach Hardy "Coach DT" Jean is a Dating Coach and the Head Coach & Co-Founder of Way Tooo Spicy LLP, a relationship and dating coaching service based in Boston, Massachusetts. Hardy's specialties include trauma healing, self-love practices, and modern dating tactics in an increasingly virtual world. He works with his clients to upgrade their dating experiences through healing trauma, implementing uniquely personalized dating gameplans, and empowering clients to attract partners that they deserve. He has a BA in Legal Studies from the University of Massachusetts Amherst and is currently pursuing his Juris Doctor at Northeastern School of Law. Patti Novak Williams Professional Matchmaker & Dating Coach Patti Novak Williams is a Professional Matchmaker in Las Vegas, Nevada. With over 20 years of experience, Patti specializes in working with clients one on one to help them find love. She has helped match hundreds of couples, engagements, and marriages. Patti was the star of the critically acclaimed A&E series “Confessions of a Matchmaker.” She has been featured in the New York Times, the New York Daily News, the New York Post, and The Wall Street Journal, and has appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show, TODAY with Hoda and Kathy Lee, The Rachael Ray Show, CBS’ The Early Show, CNN, The Big Idea with Donny Deutsch, The Nate Berkus Show, and Fox’s The Morning Show With Mike & Juliet. Patti published a book in 2008 with Random House titled “Get Over Yourself!: How to Get Real, Get Serious, and Get Ready to Find True Love.” Adina Zinn, MPA Certified Career & Life Coach Adina Zinn is a Certified Career & Life Coach and the Owner of Love Your Work Career and Life Coaching. With five years of experience, she specializes in using a holistic coaching approach to help people achieve their career and life goals. Adina earned a BA from The University of California, Santa Cruz and an MPA from San Francisco State University. She is also a Certified Career Coach through Career Coaches Institute and a Certified Life Coach through The International Coaching Federation. Jessica Lanyadoo Astrologer & Psychic Medium Jessica Lanyadoo is a Humanistic Astrologer, psychic medium, and animal communicator with over 30 years of professional experience. Known for her grounded and accessible approach, she helps individuals cultivate emotional intelligence and navigate life with clarity. She is the author of Meditations for Your Sign (2025) and Astrology for Real Relationships (2020) and hosts the acclaimed podcast Ghost of a Podcast. Her work has been featured in CNN, The Today Show, Rolling Stone, Vogue Italia, Time Magazine, Oprah Magazine, and more. Kent Lee Career & Executive Coach Kent Lee is a Career and Executive Coach and the Founder of the Perfect Resume, a career development services company based in Phoenix, Arizona. Kent specializes in creating customized resumes, LinkedIn profiles, cover letters, and thank you letters. Kent has over 15 years of career coaching and consulting experience. Previously, he has worked as a Career Consultant for Yahoo and has worked with thousands of clients including Fortune 500 executives from around the world. His work and career advice have been featured in ABC, NBC, CBS, Yahoo, Career Builder, and Monster.com. Jason Polk, LCSW, LAC Relationship Counselor Jason Polk is a Relationship Counselor and the Owner of Colorado Relationship Recovery. With over 12 years of experience as a therapist, he specializes in helping couples build healthy and thriving relationships through counseling. Jason holds an MSW from Newman University, Colorado Springs. He is also a Level II Psychobiological Approach to Couple Therapy (PACT) therapist, Healing Our Core Issues (HOCII) Certified therapist, and has training in Relational Life Therapy (RLT). Kamila Tan Life and Recovery Coach Kamila Tan is a Recovery Coach, former Division I Collegiate Athlete, Inspirational Speaker, and Mental Health Advocate. She is the Founder of Embracing Strength LLC, a coaching business with the mission to provide support for athletes recovering from disordered eating and body image issues and provide support for their families. Kamila informs her work helping athletes pursue recovery with her experience playing beach volleyball as a Division I NCAA collegiate athlete. Kamila holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology and a Master of Public Health from the University of California at Los Angeles, and is currently pursuing her Master of Social Work from the University of Southern California. Michele Fields Matchmaker & Dating Coach Michele Fields is a Matchmaker, Dating Coach, and the Owner of Bon Jour Matchmaking based in Denver, Colorado. With over thirty years of experience, she specializes in helping others meet people and navigate dating and relationships. Michele has created over 300 marriages and has been featured on Denver ABC News, The Rocky Mountain News, Colorado 2 News, Denver Westworld, and The Denver Post. Luis Congdon Relationship Coach Luis is a Relationship Coach, specializing in helping couples who want a long and happy relationship together. Luis has worked in one of the United States' largest research studies on marital longevity using the framework of Drs. John & Julie Gottman. As a researcher on marital happiness and a relationship coach, Luis has worked with over 1,000 couples, written for the Gottman Institute, spoken at colleges and universities across the United States, been featured in Forbes magazine, and has led over 150 relationship-building classes. Mel Shipman Certified Life Purpose Coach, Owner of NextLevel Life, LLC Mel Shipman is a Certified Life Purpose Coach & Mindset Coach. With over seven years of experience, she specializes in helping women leaders and entrepreneurs achieve their goals by shifting their mindsets and self-limiting beliefs. Mel holds a BS in Biology from Bowling Green State University, two master’s degrees in Business Administration and Health Administration from Webster University, and is a doctoral candidate in Professional Coaching from The Monarch Business School Switzerland. She has also received her Life Purpose Coach Certification from the Rhema International Training Group and is credentialed through the Certified Coaches Alliance. Elaine Lou Cartas Business & Career Coach Elaine Lou Cartas is an award-winning Business & Executive Career Coach and the CEO of Elaine Lou Coaching, based in Los Angeles, California. With over 10+ years of professional experience, Elaine guides women of color, and allies, who’ve established themselves in leadership and executive roles to create a holistic life so they can lead without sacrificing their well-being. She was awarded #1 Thought Leader by LA Weekly + Top 5 Business Coaches by Apple News for 2023. Her career advice has also been featured in Fobes, Business Insider, Money Magazine, and LinkedIn News. Elaine is also the host of the Color Your Dreams Podcast (https://elainelou.com/coloryourdreams/). Elaine received her Bachelor's degree in Psychology and Sociology from the University of California, Irvine; and her Master's in Leadership and Management at the University of La Verne. Jessica Notini, JD Negotiation & Mediation Coach Jessica Notini is a Negotiation and Mediation Coach practicing in California and internationally in many Latin countries. She is also a Lecturer at Stanford Law School and an Adjunct Professor at Boalt School of Law, Hastings College of the Law, and Mills College's MBA Program. She is the past Chair of the California State Bar Alternative Dispute Resolution Committee, served as the President of the Association for Dispute Resolution of Northern California (formerly NCMA), and was a member of the Board of Directors for the Mediation Society of San Francisco. She was recognized for her leadership and years of dedication with the California Dispute Resolution Council’s 2012 Don Weckstein Award. She has a BA in Psychology from Wesleyan University and a JD from the University of Michigan. Camber Hill Life Coach Camber Hill is a numerologist, author, speaker, and the owner of Camber Hill Coaching based in Long Beach, California. For over 37 years, Camber has coached entrepreneurs, creatives, business executives, and professional sports figures. He has also inspired creatives in the entertainment industry such as professional directors, writers, actors, and top radio personalities. Camber’s unique use of numerology allows him to understand the under-current which drives his clients to create long-term solutions and measurable results. His work has been featured in the History Channel's "The Human Calculator," The Los Angeles Times, Palm Springs Life Magazine, and California radio programs. He is also a member of The International Coaching Federations and is a board member of the ICF Orange County's Board of Directors. Additionally, Camber is distinguished as a certified business owner by the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce. Evanne Torrecillas School Counselor Evanne Torrecillas is a School Counselor with over four years of experience in education. She specializes in working as a mental health advocate with middle school students and their caretakers. Evanne holds a BA in Political Science from The University of California, Berkeley and an MS in Counseling with a specialization in School Counseling from California State University, Sacramento. Stephen Cognetta, MBA Tech Interviewing Coach Stephen Cognetta is the co-founder and CEO of Exponent, a learning platform that helps people prepare for and ace their tech interviews. Stephen specializes in coaching for product management, software engineering, product marketing, management, technical project management, and data science interviews. Stephen holds a BS in Computer Engineering from Princeton University, where he graduated Summa Cum Laude, and an MBA from Stanford University. Prior to founding Exponent, Stephen worked as a Product Manager for Google and co-founded HackMentalHealth. Judith Gottesman, MSW Matchmaker & Dating Coach Judith Gottesman is a Matchmaker, Dating Coach, and the Founder of Soul Mates Unlimited™️ Date Coaching and Matchmaking. With more than 20 years of experience, she specializes in using psychology, attention to detail, and her intuition to create lasting matches. Her work has been featured in numerous national media outlets, such as The New York Times, NPR, and Fox News. Judith is also an author of two books, Your Soul Mate Awaits! and The Lost Art of Dating. She holds a BA in Psychology from The University of California, Berkeley and an MA in Social Work from Yeshiva University. Kolby Goodman Career & Job Search Coach Kolby Goodman is a Career & Job Search Coach and the Founder of The Job Huntr. With over eight years of experience, he specializes in resume edits, interview preparation, LinkedIn profile feedback, and professional interview coaching. Additionally, his career advice has been featured in publications such as The Huffington Post. Kolby holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics from San Diego State University. Zach Pontrello Embodied Leadership & Relationship Coach Zach Pontrello is an Embodied Leadership & Relationship Coach and the Founder of One Thought Growth & Sovereign Man Academy. His expertise lies in helping people build better relationships with themselves and with their partners, focusing on communication and honesty. Zach received his degree from John Carroll University. Cherlyn Chong Relationship Coach Cherlyn Chong is a breakup recovery and dating coach. With 6 years of experience, she specializes in working with high-achieving professional women who want to get over their exes and find love again. She has experience as an official coach for The League dating app, and has been featured on AskMen, Business Insider, Reuters and HuffPost. Kristina Mirgorodskaya Dating Expert Kristina Mirgorodskaya is a Dating Coach and the Marketing Director of Amiccio, a New York City social app that helps singles make new connections. Amiccio connects singles by hosting parties, socials, beginners salsa, bachata, and tango classes, and speed dating events. With over four years of experience, Kristina specializes in leveraging people skills, cultivating welcoming environments, and intercultural communication. Her expertise allows her to easily bring people together. Kristina earned a degree in business from Baruch College. Nora Oliver Certified Life Coach & Motivational Speaker Nora Oliver is a Certified Life Coach & Motivational Speaker based in Boston, Massachusetts. In 2021 Nora started her own coaching business, 10X Nora Oliver, where she offers corporate wellness, divorce, pre-marital, and individual coaching programs, specializing in helping others discover who they are and how they want to live their lives. She is certified in Life Coaching, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Health and Wellness, Nutrition, and Mindset and Forgiveness. Nora is the author of I Needed a Hero so I Became One and Mental Health Nutrition. Nora has her own local TV show which focuses on offering guidance & support to her audience on mental health. Nora was selected as Business of the Month by the Woburn Chamber of Commerce and Best Life Coach of the Year 2022. Nora has been featured in multiple media outlets such as Small Business Congress in Washington D.C., Channel 5 (WCVB), Daily Times Chronicle, Entrepreneur Modul, Fashion Show Host, Behind Bodybuilders, Disrupt Magazine, etc. Rebekka Mars Meditation & Yoga Coach Rebekka Mars is a Life, Meditation, and Yoga Coach as well as the Founder of Modern Meditation™. She's located in Sarasota, Florida and also works online with people all around the world. With over ten years of experience, Rebekka specializes in Yoga, meditation, and personal training to help clients embrace their body, mind, and soul to find calmness and balance in everyday life. She holds a BA in English from Lindenwood University and has over 1000 hours of Yoga training, holding her ERYT500 certification. Rebekka also serves as a keynote speaker on the topic of modern mindfulness speaking in person and virtually. Joe Simmons Corporate Trainer Joe Simmons is a Corporate Trainer based in West Palm Beach, Florida. Joe specializes in operations management, leadership, learning and development, and employee training to help employees become high-performing teams. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Marketing from The University of South Florida. Joe’s coaching has helped numerous organizations with employee retention, revenue growth, and team productivity. Diane Martinez Certified Holistic Life Coach Diane Martinez is a Certified Holistic Life Coach and Founder of Conscious Creating Life Coaching, LLC in Atlanta, Georgia. Diane has over 10 years of coaching experience and works with clients in person and virtually on a variety of topics including career decisions, family relationships, anxiety, and setting boundaries. Diane earned her Coaching Certification from Alan Cohen's Holistic Life Coach Training Program. Madeline Mann Author of "Reverse the Search" & Career Coach Madeline Mann is a Job Search Strategist and HR Leader based in Los Angeles, CA. She is the best selling author of “Reverse the Search” & is known for turning job seekers into Job Shoppers. She has garnered an audience of millions of people and is a featured job search coach on Spotify & LinkedIn Learning. Mann’s job search coaching programs have led to thousands of success stories, and her work has been featured on ABC, Bloomberg, The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Business Insider, Harvard Business Review, and more. Her YouTube channel has been named a “Top 10 YouTube Channel for Job Seekers” and a “Top 5 Career YouTube Channel”. Karuna Jain, MS Life Coach & Energy Healer Karuna Jain is a Life Coach, Energy Healer, and the Owner of the Karuna Healing Center based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With more than 13 years of experience, she specializes in helping others heal through life coaching, hypnotherapy, reiki healing, pranic healing, and crystal healing. Karuna attended the Hypnosis Motivation Institute to receive her Hypnotherapy Certification. She also has a Life Coach Certification through the American Union of NLP. Cynthia Orduna Career and Business Coach Cynthia Orduna is a Career and Business Coach based in Los Angeles, CA. She also has career experience in recruitment, human resources, and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Over the past 6 years, Cynthia has coached over 300 people at all career levels and helped 50+ companies worldwide in cities like LA, SF, NY, Berlin, Tokyo, Sydney, London, and others to hire and retain top talent. Cynthia’s mission is to empower people to own their unique story and believe there are no boundaries on what they can achieve or who they can become. Her work has been featured in publications like Business Insider, Lattice, The Zoe Report, and The Balance Careers. Cynthia graduated from Loyola Marymount University with a BA in Studio Arts, with an emphasis in multimedia. Brandy DeOrnellas, PCC, ESQ. Career & Life Transition Coach Brandy DeOrnellas is a Professional Certified Coach specializing in life and career aspirations and transitions. She also serves company founders and small business owners. She is a former attorney with more than three years of experience as a coach. Brandy holds a JD from Harvard Law School. She also holds a BA in Social Welfare and a BA in Political Science from The University of California, Berkeley. In addition to her formal education, she has multiple coaching certifications, including a Professional Coaching Certification from The University of California, Davis, and a Relationship Coach Certification from Prepare/Enrich. She is a Professional Certified Coach (PCC) with the International Coaching Federation. Patricia Chukerman Image Consultant & Marketing Specialist Patricia Chukerman is an Image Consultant & Marketing Specialist and the Owner of Paperworks Image Consulting and Stoned on Rocks. With more than 36 years of experience, she specializes in helping companies decide how to market themselves. In addition to her work with businesses, she also has more than four years of acting experience and more than five years of crafting experience. Patricia earned her BA from The University of Illinois Chicago. Patricia is also the President of the Dania Beach Chamber of Commerce and the President of the  Hollywood Florida Scholarship Foundation. Maggie Mitchell Life Coach Maggie Mitchell is a Life Coach and the Owner of InnerCoastal Coaching in Raleigh, North Carolina. With more than 15 years of experience, she specializes in helping individuals with communication, anxiety, stress, problem-solving, decision making, meditation, and healthy boundaries. Maggie holds an MS in Counseling Psychology from Gannon University and received her Executive Coach Certificate from The International Coaching Community (ICC). Brett Baughman Life Coach Brett Baughman is a Business & Life Coach, as well as the Founder of The Brett Baughman Companies, Inc., and the renowned Action Mastery retreats. With over 20 years of experience, his specialty is helping high-performing executives and entrepreneurs to advance to the next level of success.  He earned his Bachelor’s Degree from Illinois State University and was mentored by Tad James.  During his work at the Tad James Company, he earned his certifications as a Master NLP Coach (Neuro-Linguistic Programming), a Certified Master Hypnotherapist, an NLP Trainer & Master Practitioner, and a Time Line Therapy Trainer & Master Practitioner. He’s also been voted the Top Coach to work with by Apple News. Zachary Green Entrepreneurship Coach Zachary Green is an Entrepreneurship Coach, Author, and U.S. Marine Corp Veteran. With over 10 years of experience as an entrepreneur, he specializes in helping people transform their businesses, relationships, and lives. Zachary’s book, Warrior Entrepreneur, focuses on how warrior traits can help entrepreneurs, leaders, and others battle through adversity and accomplish their missions. Zachary was featured in Entrepreneur Magazine, on the front page of Yahoo.com, MSN.com, and in USA Today, along with numerous other local and national media outlets, and was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Governor John Kasich. Zachary was also selected by the Obama White House as one of 10 entrepreneurs to represent the United States at the Global Entrepreneur Summit. He was also featured in the US Playing Cards Frontline Leaders playing card series as one of 52 veteran entrepreneurs. Zachary earned a BA in Marketing and Sports Management from Bowling Green State University in Ohio. He won the Ohio Chamber of Commerce Entrepreneur of the Year in 2013, the SBA Ohio Small Business Exporter of the Year in 2016, a Spartan Distinguished Alumni Award in 2017, and a President’s E Award in 2019. Lisa Pachence, MCC Career Coach Lisa Pachence is a Master Certified Coach, an Executive Life Coach, Career Consultant, and the Founder of LP Coaching based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. With over nine years of professional coaching experience and 10 years in Recruiting and HR, Lisa specializes in supporting under-fulfilled overachievers to overcome cycles of burnout and stress and have a big life with big impact. Lisa is also a Mentor Coach with the International Coach Federation, is Certified in Emotional Intelligence and Trauma Informed Leadership, and runs a thriving community of trained professional coaches. She received her B.A. in Anthropology, Spanish, and Economics from Bucknell University. Joui Turandot Branding Consultant Joui Turandot is a Personal and Creative Branding Consultant and the Founder of JTM Consulting, a business that specializes in public persona branding, business branding, creative leadership coaching, and speaking workshops. Joui has more than 10 years of experience as a fashion designer, filmmaker, photographer, costume designer, stylist, and personal development coach. She uses her diverse experience to guide creative leaders and entrepreneurs through a journey of self-discovery and embodied personal expression to help them grow their business and step into the next level of leadership. Joui holds a BA in Media Studies from Mills College and holds credentials in the Somatica Core Training Method by the Somatica Institute and in the Art of Circling Training by The Circling Institute. Wes Pinkston Certified Holistic Life Coach Wes Pinkston is a Certified Holistic Life Coach and the Founder of Wes Pinkston Life Coaching. With more than five years of experience, he specializes in helping people achieve greater fulfillment and understand their full potential. He received his Holistic Lifestyle Coach Certification from The CHEK Institute. Eze Sanchez Life & Relationship Coach Eze Sanchez is a Life & Relationship Coach and the Founder of Eze Sanchez Coaching in Gainesville, Florida. He's been practicing as a coach since late 2016 and has more than 1,000 hours of collective training and experience in personal development. He specializes in helping people find self-acceptance, self-empathy, and self-love through building accountability and kindness for themselves. Eze has an Associates Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Central Florida, a diploma in Massage Therapy from the Florida School of Massage, and a certificate from the Satvatove Institute School of Transformative Coaching. Hayley Quinn Dating Coach Hayley Quinn is a UK-based dating coach who teaches men and women globally how to meet and date people in real life, not just on apps. She has over 15 years of experience and has coached more than 7,500 clients worldwide through her in-person coaching and boot camps. Her unique in-person dating bootcamps have been reviewed by Cosmopolitan, The Independent, and Grazia. As one of the most trusted dating coaches in the world, her coaching expertise has also been featured in multiple published books, across international media, and in a viral TEDx talk. Her passion is helping her dating coaching clients to achieve real-world results. Taylor Rochestie Professional Basketball Player Taylor Rochestie is a Professional Basketball Player, Author, and Speaker. Having lived in 12 countries, immersing himself in local cultures and learning about the diversity of life, Taylor offers a unique perspective through his book, "A New 20/20 Vision: Cultivate Joy, Reprogram Your Mind, and Define Life Through an Authentic Lens." He also has over 11 years of professional basketball experience with the Israel Basketball Premier League and the Montenegro men's national basketball team. Amber Leima Resumé Consultant Amber Leima is a Resumé Consultant and the Founding Editor of Best Words Editing. She has two decades of experience helping people and companies express their unique value. Amber is a master at drawing out what matters from your personal story and promoting it to optimal effect, crafting beautifully clear resumés and on-point personal branding supported by thoughtfully-structured interview coaching. She holds Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees in English Literature from the University of Sussex, England. Her clients have been hired by their employers of choice, including Amazon, Meta, Microsoft, and PayPal. Kevin Nahai Therapist, Life Coach, and Couples Counselor Kevin Nahai is a renowned life and relationship coach based in Beverly Hills, California. For over five years, he has helped individuals and couples transform their relationships, strengthen their communication, and create deeper fulfillment in their daily lives. Drawing from certifications in relationship counseling, cognitive behavioral therapy, and neuro-linguistic programming, Kevin blends evidence-based techniques with a compassionate, results-oriented approach. His insights have reached thousands through Nobody Listens to Kevin, his popular podcast known for translating complex psychological principles into relatable, actionable guidance. A graduate of the University of Southern California, Kevin holds both a bachelor’s degree in Communication and Media Studies and a master’s degree in Social Entrepreneurship. He is currently pursuing his Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology, continuing his mission to bridge the gap between emotional awareness and practical growth. Christina Stathopoulos, PCC, ACCC Certified Leadership & Life Coach Christina Stathopoulos is a Certified Leadership and Life Coach and the Founder of Hear Her Roar, a coaching service for women leaders. With more than five years of experience, she specializes in leadership development, relationships, empowerment, public speaking, and work-life balance. Christina holds a BA in Chemistry and English from Mount Holyoke College. She has also received her Professional Certified Coach Credential from The International Coaching Federation and Accomplishment Coaching Certification from Accomplishment Coaching. Jessica Villegas Certified Academic Life Coach Jessica Villegas is a Certified Academic Life Coach and the Founder of Hi-Lite Coaching + Consulting in Winter Garden, Florida. Jessica has over 20 years of leadership experience, and she and her team serve teens and young adults through private coaching, group coaching, workshops, and speaking engagements. She uses workbook exercises, coaching planners, and regular check-ins to support young adults in achieving their academic and personal goals. Jessica received her Bachelor’s in Organizational Communications and Leadership Studies from the University of Central Florida and her Professional Coaching certification through Coach Training EDU, an ICF Accredited Institution, as an Academic Life Coach. Jeff Siegel Holistic Life Coach Jeff Siegel is a Holistic Life Coach and the Founder of Jeff Siegel Wellness. With nearly 10 years of experience, he specializes in mind-body medicine, life coaching, health and wellness coaching, mindfulness, corporate training, and transformational public speaking. He received a Master of Education from Harvard Graduate School of Education, a Master of Buddhist Studies from The University of Hong Kong, and a BSc in Neuroscience & Biology from Emory University. He’s also a certified personal trainer, a certified Eating Psychology Coach, and a certified Koru Mindfulness Teacher. Brooks Gibbs, PhD Resilience Educator Brooks Gibbs is an Author, Speaker, and Resilience Educator based in Tampa Bay, Florida. Brooks teaches strategies for conflict resolution with an emphasis on emotional resilience and the golden rule and has presented his message to students, parents, and educators at over 3,000 schools. In addition, he founded Raise Them Strong, a parent training program that helps parents raise resilient children. He is also a board member of TheHopeLine, a non-profit youth crisis organization. Brooks’ online educational content has amassed over 300 million views, and he has been featured in the New York Post, The Daily Mail, On Air with Ryan Seacrest, and more. He has a Masters in Psychology and a PhD in Sociology from Atlantic International University. Deb DiSandro Owner, Speak Up On Purpose Deb DiSandro is the Owner of Speak Up On Purpose, an organization dedicated to improving and teaching public speaking. Deb has over 30 years of experience as a national speaker and has presented at the Erma Bombeck Writer’s Conference and the National Society of Newspaper Columnists. She was awarded the National Speakers Association Member of the Year 2007 and has been published in Writer's Digest, Daily Herald, Women's Day, and Better Homes & Gardens. Jennifer Landis-Santos, PCC, NBHWC Certified Career Counselor & Wellness Coach Jennifer Landis-Santos is a Certified Career Counselor & Wellness Coach and the Founder of Career Wellness, LLC. With 20 years of experience, she specializes in helping others identify and move towards a satisfying life and work balance. Jennifer is a graduate of Georgetown University’s Institute for Transformational Leadership, where she is on the faculty of the Health and Wellness Coaching Program. She's a Professional Certified Coach through the International Coach Federation and a Certified Career Counselor through the National Career Development Association. Rachel Kove Certified Recovery Coach Rachel Kove is a Certified Recovery Coach, Serial Entrepreneur, Published Author, Mental Health Advocate, and Actress with over 13 years of experience. She recently developed and became Co-Owner of Transformational Solutions, a life coaching program specializing in addiction, trauma, and personal development. Rachel also co-created the V.I.S.I.O.N.S program, an online self-improvement curriculum designed to help people get unstuck emotionally and accomplish their goals. Additionally, she co-hosts the weekly podcast “Kicking it With The Koves” alongside her brother and father, Jesse and Martin Kove. Jonathon Aslay Dating and Relationship Coach Jonathon Aslay is a dating and relationship coach based in Torrance, CA. With over 15 years of experience, Jonathon is a leading midlife dating coach and self-love advocate. After losing his 19-year-old son Connor in 2018, Jonathon Aslay’s grief led him on a soul-searching inner journey, where he realized that the relationship process reveals the most common emotional health issue faced by many singles seeking a partner: a distressing lack of self-worth, self-regard, and self-love. He is the author of the book, "What The Heck Is Self-Love Anyway?", packed with fun, engaging spiritual and personal growth practices. Jonathon has also been featured on ABC, eHarmony, CBS Radio, NBC, and more. Alexandra Friedman Friendship and Connection Coach Alexandra Friedman is a Friendship & Connection Coach, Community Builder, and Founder of Connection Feast, a social wellness company dedicated to helping people cultivate deeper, more meaningful relationships. Since launching Connection Feast in 2018, she has guided 2,000+ people through transformative social experiences, teaching them how to skip the small talk, get real, and develop the social skills that spark genuine connection. With a background in community-building, content strategy, and experience design, Alexandra has worked with major brands like Airbnb and AWS to create programs that foster engagement and belonging. Through workshops, intensives, collaborations, and coaching, she empowers adults to create the relationships and communities that make life truly fulfilling. She received a BS in Communications, Advertising, and Creative Writing from the University of Miami. Laura Horne, MPH Health Education Specialist Laura is Chief Program Officer for Active Minds, the nation’s premier nonprofit organization supporting mental health awareness and education for students. Prior to Active Minds, Laura led public health initiatives at the National Association of County and City Health Officials and at Tulane University. She earned her Master of Public Health degree from Tulane University. She is certified as a Health Education Specialist by the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing. Cyndy Etler Teen Life Coach Cyndy Etler is a certified teen life coach and award-winning young adult author who divides her time between Providence, Rhode Island, and Charlotte, North Carolina. Cyndy has over two decades of experience working directly with teenagers and supporting adolescent social and emotional health. In 2012, Cyndy founded The Teen Life Coach and began offering support and coaching to struggling teens and their families. She is dual certified through the Youth Coaching Institute and the International Coaching Federation. She has two published memoirs, Dead Inside (2017) and We Can’t Be Friends (2017). She is the narrator for Robert Downey Jr's troubled teen industry podcast The Sunshine Place, and her work has appeared on CNN, Newsday, NPR, and more. In 2017, she founded 1st Block Revolution, a program designed to counteract the school to prison pipeline by helping meet the needs of at-risk teens in the English classroom and supporting teachers. She is an in-demand speaker who previously taught high school English, special education, and English as a second language in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and North Carolina. Cyndy has a double-major bachelor's degree in English and American studies and a Master of Education degree from UMass Boston. Terry Jones Career and Executive Coach Terry Jones is a career and executive coach based in New York City. He is an ICF credentialed coach, an Accredited Career Coach through the Institute for Career Coaching, and a Certified Master of Career Services with the National Career Development Association. Terry has guided hundreds of professionals through career transitions, promotions, and leadership challenges. He has built online leadership courses and practical toolkits, and has led more than 100 group and one-to-one training sessions on career strategy, LinkedIn optimization, and interview preparation. With over 20 years in corporate leadership and learning and development, he now consults with FireBridge Consulting to design and implement strategic L&D programs. Terry’s social platforms reach more than 570,000 people, and his videos have earned over 60 million views, helping professionals advocate for themselves at work, land roles they are proud of, and advance with confidence. Maria Ceschan Taylor Swift Content Creator Maria Ceschan is a Taylor Swift fandom content creator and digital marketing expert based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. With more than a decade of experience in digital marketing and leading strategy, automation, and personalization initiatives, she specializes in building high-impact email programs that drive engagement and long-term audience growth. Beyond her professional work, Maria channels her passion for digital communities into managing several social media accounts celebrating Taylor Swift’s music, lyrics, and fandom culture. Deepali Vyas Executive Recruiter, Career Strategist & Author Deepali Vyas is a career and executive coach based in New York City, NY. With over 25 years of executive recruiting experience, Deepali is known as The Elite Recruiter, recognized for helping professionals navigate the modern workplace with clarity, strategy, and confidence. She is an executive search leader, keynote speaker, and podcaster who has advised Fortune 500 companies, hedge funds, and private equity firms on critical leadership hires and organizational talent strategy. Her mission is to help ambitious professionals articulate their value, build powerful brands, and navigate the corporate game with confidence. With over 1 million followers across social media platforms, Deepali is also one of the most followed voices on careers today, known for her practical, direct, and empowering guidance on job search, leadership, and workplace dynamics. Her insights have been featured in The Wall Street Journal, CNBC News, Forbes, UNILAD, and more. Deepali has a bachelor’s degree in Finance from the University of Colorado Boulder and a master’s degree in International Finance from The London School of Economics and Political Science. Elaine Oyang Yoga Therapist & Instructor Elaine Oyang is a Yoga Therapist and Instructor, Wellness Advocate, and Founder of Elaine Oyang Yoga in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 9 years of experience, Elaine specializes in spinal release yoga, viniyoga, pranayama (yoga breathing practices), meditation, guided relaxation, and Ayurveda. Elaine holds a BS in Biology from Harvey Mudd College. She is certified in Yoga Therapy from the Stress Management Center of Marin. Elaine has received over 1,000 hours of training in yoga therapy and focuses on teaching clients to redirect stress and tensions towards effective self-growth, resilience, and contentment through physical nurturing and inner reflection. She also specializes in treating those with Fibromyalgia, chronic pain, chronic fatigue, Lupus, Lyme's, anxiety, and depression. Manuela Pauer, CPCC, PCC Certified Career, Leadership, & Happiness Coach Manuela Pauer is an International Coach Federation accredited Career, Leadership, and Happiness Coach and Facilitator. With more than 14 years of experience, Manuela specializes in helping mid-career professionals connect with their purpose, passions, and strengths to create a career and life they love. Before deciding to help other professionals, she had a successful corporate career spannings strategy consulting at Bain & Company, Product Management at a Silicon Valley start-up, and Executive Director of Product Management and Strategic Planning at AOL. Manuela holds a BS in Business Administration from The University of California, Berkeley, and received her Certified Professional Co-Active Coach training from The Coaches Training Institute. Sven Loss Relationship and Transformation Coach Sven Loss is a relationship and transformation coach based in Hamburg, Germany. With over 4 years of experience, Sven specializes in working with clients to break them free from unhealthy patterns so they can access authenticity, freedom of mind, and healthy relationships. Sven has a BSc in Business Administration from the University of Hamburg and a MSc in Business and Economics from the Lund University School of Economics and Management. Nicole Lam Registered Clinical Counselor Nicole Lam is a Registered Clinical Counselor based in Vancouver, BC, Canada. With over 2 years of experience, Nicole is the founder of Ren Therapy and specializes in relationship anxiety and attachment. A few therapeutic approaches that inform her work include Attachment Theory, Somatic Therapy, Internal Family Systems (IFS), Mindfulness Therapy, EMDR, Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT), and Solution-Focused Therapy (SFT). With previous experience in social media and digital marketing, Nicole also shares mental health reminders and insights online to over 100k followers. Nicole has a master of Counselling Psychology degree from City University of Seattle, where she graduated on the President’s Honours List. Nicole is currently licensed with the BC Association of Clinical Counsellors (BCACC). Jennifer Clark Life Coach Jennifer Clark is an Evolution Coach and the Founder of Soulful Solutions, her life consulting business which helps both individuals and organizations evolve and grow into their full potential based in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. She has over 20 years of experience assisting over 8000 individuals with life consulting, workshop facilitation, and public speaking training. She received a Risk Management Certification from the Sprott School of Business in 2000, an Integrated Energy Therapy Master and Instruction Certificate in 2004, and an Assertiveness Coach Certificate in 2015. She earned a BA with Honors in Political Science from Queen's University in 1992. James M. Sama Personal Development Coach James M. Sama is a Personal Development Coach as well as an International Speaker and Author. With over a decade of experience, he specializes in relationships, leadership, and business strategy. James holds a degree in Business Management from Newbury College and a BSBA in Marketing from Suffolk University. In addition to over 38 million page views on his website and a social media following of over 400,000, James has made regular media appearances on CNN, CBS, Bravo, The New York Post, The Huffington Post, and CNBC. Lindsay Gordon Career Coach Lindsay Gordon is a Career Coach and the Owner of a Life of Options, a career coaching service for analytically minded people. With more than seven years of experience, she specializes in helping individuals who feel aimless or dissatisfied with work make the right choices for themselves. Lindsay has also been featured in many media publications like Business Insider, Thrive Global, and the How to Be Awesome at Your Job podcast. Lindsay holds a BS in Bioengineering from The Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering and a Core Strengths Coaching Certificate from San Francisco State University. Abby Rosenblum Matchmaker Abby Rosenblum is a Matchmaker and the Founder of The Social: Modern Matchmaking, a matchmaking service helping successful professionals find love in real life. With over three years of experience, she specializes in understanding the entire picture of a person to handpick dates for them. She also hosts The Ghosted Podcast, a podcast featuring dating experts, real clients, and singles from around the world. Abby holds a Bachelor’s degree in Broadcast and Digital Journalism and Linguistics from Syracuse University. James Pak Career Coach James Pak is a Career Coach and Founder of LA Career Coaching. With over eight years of industry experience, James specializes in career guidance, professional development, and graduate school and college admissions consulting for students. He offers one-on-one coaching services and works with students in college and high school. He received his MBA from Columbia Business School and a B.S. from Boston College. Carolyn Powery Business Etiquette Expert & Personal Image Branding and Confidence Coach Carolyn Powery is a certified Business Etiquette Consultant and Image Coach based in West Palm Beach, Florida. As the founder of Prestige Etiquette and Image Consulting, she has over 16 years of experience helping provide clients with tools needed for success in any social or business environment. Carolyn is certified in Business, Social, and Children’s Etiquette from The Etiquette Institute, making her services ideal for business professionals, entrepreneurs, college students and children. Prestige Etiquette and Image Consulting LLC is a member of The Etiquette Institute. Eden Gold Youth Motivational Speaker and Teen Life Coach Eden Gold is a nationally recognized youth motivational speaker, podcast host, and founder of Life After High School, an education company equipping students with the tools they need to thrive in adulthood. Based in Oregon, Eden serves middle school, high school, and college-aged students across the country through high-impact keynotes, workshops, and digital programs that bridge the gap between what’s taught in school and what’s required in life. Her signature program, Life After High School, helps students master success planning, financial literacy, mental wellness, communication skills, personal growth, and career readiness. In 2025, Eden launched The Unshakable You Tour, a nationwide initiative with a mission to help 1 million students build unshakable self-confidence and develop the skills to lead their lives with intention, direction, and purpose. She is also the host of the Real Life Adulting Podcast, where she interviews industry leaders and young adults navigating adulthood in real-time. Zach Watson Invisible Labor Coach and Educator Zach Watson is an Invisible Labor Coach, educator, and content creator based in Worcester, Massachusetts. With previous experience as a teacher, Zach was first inspired to educate others on practical life skills in his middle school classroom which transformed into making videos on youtube then TikTok. As he started talking about fatherhood and his implementation of the Fair Play method he grew an audience of over 1.2M over 5 platforms. In 2023, he began coaching clients 1:1, and later expanded to offering couples sessions and group courses. Katie Stolp Master Certified Coach Katie Stolp is a Master Certified Coach and the founder of Think Power, based in Austin, Texas. With over 5 years of coaching experience, Katie has helped hundreds of women around the world let go of self-defeating thoughts, own their power, and break through to authentic confidence in their careers and lives. Through speaking functions, online courses, one-on-one and group coaching, Katie’s approach combines a supportive yet direct coaching style and emphasizes research and science-based techniques. Her previous professional experience includes being an Austin CBS affiliate news anchor, corporate leader, and trainer. Katie is certified through The Life Coach School and trained with Erickson Coaching International. She has a bachelor’s degree in Broadcast Journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Dawn Smith-Camacho Career & Life Coach Dawn Smith-Camacho is the Owner of Whole Life Solutions, a business in which Dawn provides professional speaking on effective decision-making and navigating major changes for entrepreneurs and employees. She also supports individual coaching clients by identifying their core values, managing time, prioritizing, and honing in on their ideal path. Her clients include Vistage, UNICEF, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), the Wedding Industry Professionals Association (WIPA), NACE, and Oracle. Sharon Lee Success Strategist Sharon Lee is a Success Strategist and the Owner of Fearless Pursuits. With over seven years of experience, she specializes in helping others gain clarity on their goals, build confidence, and remain accountable towards their goals. Sharon offers advice to others through life coaching, career coaching, and small business coaching. Sharon holds a Strategic Intervention Coach Certification from Robbins-Madanes Training and has additional training from Erickson Coaching International. Marlena Tillhon Psychotherapist and Relationship Coach Marlena Tillhon is a psychotherapist and relationship coach based in the UK. With over 12 years of experience, Marlena specializes in relationships, trauma, and anxiety. Through her business, Therapy That Works, she supports clients worldwide in creating secure relationships where they feel loved and valued. She has worked with nearly 800 clients to help them work through inner healing and create relationships and a life that works for them. She is also known online as @lovewithclarity, sharing her professional insights with a community of over 44k followers. Marlena has an MSc in Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy from the University of Derby. Emyli Lovz Dating and Relationship Coach Emyli Lovz is a dating and relationship coach for men based in San Francisco, CA. With 14 years of experience, Emyli is the co-founder of emlovz alongside her husband Thomas, whom she met during a 100-date experiment at UC Berkeley. Research findings from the experiment and the data collected from male and female clients over the past 14 years are the foundation for her coaching program, Dating Decoded. Now with a team of 10 coaches, emlovz is dedicated to helping men and women find and maintain loving, healthy, and lasting relationships and empowering them to achieve their dating and relationship goals. In addition to Dating Decoded, she also offers Relationships Decoded, helping people to not only find a long-term partner but an enduring, thriving relationship. Since 2012, Emyli has guided thousands of men, and her work has been featured in Forbes, Business Insider, Newsweek, USA Today, LA Weekly, Maxim, and more. Donna Barnes Dating and Relationship Coach Donna Barnes is a certified life and love coach based in New York City, New York. With over 18 years of experience, Donna is known as The Love Coach. She is the host of the Broken to Brave podcast, the author of Giving Up Junk-Food Relationships, and a columnist for DigitalRomanceInc.com and DatingAdvice.com. In 2001, she was cast on the reality show The Real Sex & The City, which led to her co-hosting 205 episodes of Naked New York, a talk show about sex and relationships. In 2003, she also wrote a relationship column for New York Moves, giving advice to single women in New York City. With over 30 years of personal dating experience, she offers clients a unique perspective that combines practical hindsight, intelligence, and academic knowledge. Donna has frequently contributed to Good Morning America and Nightline. She spent three seasons with the popular "What Would You Do?" hosted by Emmy winner John Quinones. Donna has also appeared on Fox & Friends, CNN, NBC's Today, CBS's Early Show, Fox News, Fuse, VH-1, and more. In 2014, Donna was voted one of NYC’s 12 Best Dating Coaches. John Strasser Certified Master Insight Coach John Strasser is a Certified Master Insight Coach and Master Insight Coaching Instructor at The Insight Coaching Community. With more than seven years of experience, John specializes in helping others work in the life coaching space and develop successful coaching businesses. John holds a BA in South Asian Religions from The University of South Florida and an MA in Buddhism and Hinduism from Columbia University. He has also studied Leadership Coaching at Harvard University. Darci Smith Recruiting Consultant and Career Coach Darci Smith is a recruiting consultant and career coach based in Redwood City, CA. With over 8 years of experience in recruiting, Darci now owns Roklyn Consulting, working with financial firms to hire financial advisors, support staff, and others within the industry. She also runs Career Coach Darci, a career advice platform where she helps mid, senior, and C-level corporate professionals looking for assistance with their job search, resume, LinkedIn, and overall career strategy. Darci uses her valuable experience in the recruitment industry and uses it to support job seekers through both 1:1 coaching and through sharing insights on social media @careercoachdarci where she reaches over 300,000 followers. Tara Bradford Life & Mindset Coach Tara Bradford is a Brand Strategist, Life and Mindset Coach, and the Founder of The Bradford Institute, a life and leadership coaching company in New York City. She is also a guest lecturer at Fordham's Gabelli School of Business in the MS Media Management program. With over five years of experience, Tara specializes in personal branding, executive presence, and thought leadership. Tara brings her background in Neuroscience, Psychology, Biochemistry, and Social and Behavioral Sciences into her coaching practice. She received a BS in Nursing from the University of Arizona and studied Biochemistry at the University of New England. She is certified in high-performance coaching, neurolinguistics, hypnotherapy, success coaching, and emotional freedom and TIME techniques. Her podcast titled Handle Everything is dedicated to sharing this message. James Brown Meditation Coach James Brown is a San Francisco Bay Area-based teacher of Vedic Meditation, an easy and accessible form of meditation with ancient roots. James completed a rigorous 2-year study program with Vedic masters, including a 4-month immersion in the Himalayas. James has taught thousands of people, individually, and in companies such as Slack, Salesforce, and VMWare. Larry Cornett, PhD Career Coach Larry Cornett is a career advisor who founded Brilliant Forge to help ambitious people forge more invincible careers. He has over 23 years of experience in tech such as being the Vice President of Consumer Products for Yahoo! Search. He has a Ph.D. in Psychology from Rice University with an emphasis on Human Factors and Human-Computer Interaction. Tina Wilson Relationship Expert Tina Wilson is a Relationship Expert and the CEO and Founder of the Wingman app and blog. With over five years of experience, Tina specializes in combining traditional and digital approaches to relationships, friendship, and dating. Her knowledge about the impact of technology on dating and couples communications has led to features on numerous media platforms including Daily Mail, The Executive Magazine, Daily Star, The Sun, Glamour, and BuzzFeed. David Kornel Z Dating Coach David Kornel Z is a Dating Coach for NYC Wingwoman LLC, a relationship coaching service based in New York City. 'NYC Wingwoman' offers matchmaking, wingwoman services, 1-on-1 Coaching, and intensive weekend bootcamps. Coming from a bilingual family, David has always been fascinated by communication and relationships. He speaks five languages and runs a language and communication coaching and tutoring business in Europe. Christmas Hutchinson, MBA Life & Confidence Coach Christmas Hutchinson is a Life and Confidence Coach based in New York, New York. With over 18 years of experience in accounting and personal advising, Christmas uses her experience growing her career trying, failing, and re-strategizing obstacles to help clients change careers, land promotions, and build resilience. She is the author of "The Resilient Mind" and holds an MBA in Corporate Strategy and Finance from The Johns Hopkins University. Ann Rivera Certified Life & Sports Mindset Coach Ann Rivera is a Life Coach, Sports Mindset Coach, and former pro athlete based in Bend, Oregon. Ann has over ten years of experience coaching athletes, teen girls in competitive sports, and anyone ready for real change in their life. Her life coaching certification was completed through the Certified Coaching Federation and her Sports Mindset Training was completed through Peak Performance Sports. Ann has a Masters of Education, has taught and coached around the world, and is a published author. Hoda Abrahim Dating and Relationships Coach Hoda Abrahim is a Dating and Relationships Coach. Chantal Heide Dating Coach Chantal Heide is a Dating Coach. Ayushi Mathur Relationship Coach and Biodata Profile Expert Ayushi Mathur is a Relationship Coach and Biodata Profile Expert. Personal Care & Styling Jasmin Todd Master Hair Stylist Jasmin Todd is a Master Stylist and the Owner of Austin Curls in Austin, TX. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in cutting and styling naturally curly hair. Jasmin trained at the world-famous Ouidad salon and is Ouidad certified. In 2022, Mane Addicts named Austin Curls as one of the Top U.S. Salons for Curly Hair. Barbie Ritzman Beauty & Skincare Specialist Barbie Ritzman is a Beauty Specialist, Influencer, and the Owner of Barbie’s Beauty Bits. With over 10 years of experience in the beauty industry, she specializes in skincare and aesthetics. Barbie studied marketing at Tidewater Community College and holds a Certificate from the Media Buying Academy. For her work, she’s won Beauty Influencer of the Year - The USA and was featured in “The Allure 50,” which includes the year’s 50 most influential people in the beauty industry. Kalee Hewlett Image Consultant Kalee Hewlett is a Celebrity Stylist & Confidence Coach with almost two decades of experience helping clients build confidence and ‘dress for success.' She works with her clients to transform their sense of self 'from the inside out’ by merging her expertise in image consulting with Neuro-Linguistic Programming. Kalee’s work is rooted in science, style, and the understanding that ‘identity is destiny'. She uses her own methodology and Style To Success Strategy to create positive identity shifts. Kalee is a fashion TV host and appears regularly on QVC UK sharing her fashion expertise. She also was appointed as the head judge and host of Fashion One Network’s 6-part TV show 'Design Genius.’ Melissa Young Freelance Fashion Stylist Melissa Young is a Freelance Fashion Stylist based in Atlanta, Georgia. With over 10 years of professional experience, Melissa's objective is to elevate people's confidence and comfort through the power of fashion. Her professional background is in commercial styling and she has extensive experience in styling for editorial, television, and film. She has styled for brands including Diageo Crown Royal, Hilton Hotels, IHG Hotels, and Getty Images, and has been featured in several publications, including PUMP Magazine, Moevir Magazine, and Upscale Magazine. She received her Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies from the University of South Carolina. Shaelynn Haning Professional Tailor & Business Owner Shaelynn Haning is a Tailor & Business Owner based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Shaelynn is the founder of the highest-rated and most-reviewed alterations and tailoring service in Oklahoma, Tallgrass Tailor, employing a team of skilled craftsmen and women from across the country and the world. Shaelynn is a member of the State of Oklahoma Education Careers and Technologies Board and a member of both the Custom Tailors and Designers Association and the Association of Sewing and Design Professionals. She is the host of The Sew Show with Shae, an entertaining and educational sewing channel posting weekly videos on YouTube. Shaelynn earned her BS in Apparel Design and Product Development from Marist College. Courtney Foster Licensed Cosmetologist Courtney Foster is a Licensed Cosmetologist, Certified Hair Loss Practitioner, and Cosmetology Educator based out of New York City. Courtney runs Courtney Foster Beauty, LLC and her work has been featured on The Wendy Williams Show, Good Morning America, The Today Show, The Late Show with David Letterman, and in East/West Magazine. She received her Cosmetology License from the State of New York after training at the Empire Beauty School - Manhattan. Christine George Master Hair Stylist & Colorist Christine George is a Master Hairstylist, Colorist, and Owner of Luxe Parlour, a premier boutique salon based in the Los Angeles, California area. Christine has over 23 years of hair styling and coloring experience. She specializes in customized haircuts, premium color services, balayage expertise, classic highlights, and color correction. She received her cosmetology degree from the Newberry School of Beauty. Ndeye Anta Niang Hair Stylist & Master Braider Ndeye Anta Niang is a Hair Stylist, Master Braider, and Founder of AntaBraids, a traveling braiding service based in New York City. Ndeye has over 20 years of experience in African hair including braiding box braids, Senegalese twists, crochet braids, faux dread locs, goddess locs, kinky twists, and lakhass braids. Ndeye was the first female of her tribe in Africa to move to America and is now sharing her knowledge of African braids passed on from generation to generation. Mallika Sharma Certified Leather Care Technician Mallika Sharma is a Certified Leather Care Technician and the Founder of The Leather Laundry, a niche spa service for luxury leather gear in India. Mallika specializes in leather cleaning, coloring, repairing, and restoring for shoes, handbags, jackets, wallets, belts, and sofas. She holds a Master’s degree in Finance and Investment from the University of Edinburgh Business School. Mallika is a certified Professional Leather Care Technician and trained with the globally reputed leather care company, LTT in the United Kingdom. Elle Monus Image Consultant Elle Monus is an Image Consultant and the Co-Founder of True Image Group. With over 11 years of fashion industry experience, she specializes in holistic approaches to branding, size-inclusive image consulting, and personal styling. Additionally, Elle has had the opportunity to work on several New York Fashion Week shows and has been featured in multiple media outlets, such as Racked. Jordan Stolch Image Consultant & Style Advisor Jordan Stolch is an Image Strategist, Style Advisor, and the Founder of MiKADO - a concierge personal styling firm. With over a decade of experience, Jordan specializes in helping people eliminate the confusion and insecurities associated with how to dress in order to build a powerful image and use clothing to their strategic advantage. Jordan trains entrepreneurs, business leaders, and corporate executives in the foundations of "power dressing", from some of the country's preeminent companies such as Morgan Stanley, Deloitte, Berkshire Hathaway, Universal Music Group, Starbucks, and Disney. She works with clients both in-person and virtually, teaching them how to take the confusion out of style so they can operate at a higher level. Jordan earned her BA in Psychology from the University of Waterloo and studied Merchandise Marketing at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIDM). Paul Julch, MA Personal Wardrobe Stylist & Speaker Paul Julch is a Personal Wardrobe Stylist, Speaker, and the founder of Urbanite | Suburbanite, a wardrobe styling business in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 25 years in the fashion industry, Paul works with clients to make getting dressed easier, less time consuming, and more enjoyable. Paul has years of experience in retail visual merchandising - styling windows, displays, and floor sets for Banana Republic, Gap, and Express. He also has experience styling fashion photo shoots and corporate videos. Paul holds a BS Degree in Management from State University of New York at Binghamton, an MA in Clinical Psychology from Long Island University. He also studied Interior Design at the University of California, Berkeley. Marc Sigal Shoe Care Specialist Marc Sigal is a Shoe Care Specialist based in Los Angeles. Marc has over 19 years of experience working in the world of e-commerce, with extensive experience with the care of luxury goods. He is currently the VP of Strategic Partnerships at Blutag, an e-commerce platform helping consumers find products. Prior to Blutag, he founded ButlerBox, a dry cleaning and shoe care service based in Los Angeles, California. ButlerBox reinvented amenity services by placing custom-designed, wrinkle-resistant lockers in luxury apartment buildings, class A office buildings, shopping centers, and other convenient locations. The company got acquired by Rinse.com in 2021. Marc has a BA in Global and International Studies from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Alicia Ramos Skincare Professional Alicia Ramos is a Licensed Esthetician and the owner of Smoothe Denver in Denver, Colorado. She received her license at the School of Botanical & Medical Aesthetics, with training in lashes, dermaplaning, waxing, microdermabrasion, and chemical peels, and now provides skin care solutions to hundreds of clients. Mia Danilowicz Master Tailor Mia Danilowicz is a Master Tailor who works onset and on the red carpet in Los Angeles, California. With over a decade of experience, Mia specializes in bridal and gown couturier fittings, garment reconstruction, and custom design. Mia has worked at the Oscars, Grammys, SAG Awards, and Golden Globes. Her clients include a long list of entertainment and fashion industry headliners, major fashion magazines, luxury consumer brands, and popular media. Mia was trained at the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising and received her AA in Fashion Design and BS in Business Management. Melissa Jannes Licensed Esthetician & Brazilian Wax Educator Melissa Jannes is a Licensed Esthetician and the owner of Maebee's Beauty Studio in Philadelphia, a single practitioner space providing quality services with individualized attention. She received her esthetics degree at The Beauty School of Middletown in 2008 and is licensed in Pennsylvania. Shun Pittman Master Cosmetologist, Global Salon Educator & Author Shun Pittman is a Master Cosmetologist, Author, Owner, and Founder of Corps d’Elite Salon and Corps d’Elite Beauty. With over 25 years of international experience, she is dedicated to and specializes in providing luxury salon services to all hair types and textures and every skin tone and shade. Her services include hair conditioning treatments, cutting, coloring, styling, extensions, and makeup application. Shun has experience working with, coaching, training, and mentoring beauty professionals from multiple companies including L'Oréal, Wella, Matrix, Paul Mitchell, Redken, Big Sexy Hair, and Toni & Guy. She is also a host for national and local media outlets and her work has been featured in The Washingtonian, The Cheddar Network, and WJLA Good Morning Washington's Beauty and Fashion Police segments. Shun is the author of “50 Things Your Hairdresser Wants YOU to Know (and a few things we don’t...)". Chloée Ohayon-Crosby Costume Designer & Wardrobe Specialist Chloée Ohayon-Crosby is a Costume Designer and Wardrobe Specialist in Los Angeles, California. With over eight years of experience in fashion consulting, Chloée specializes in personal, film, theater, and commercial styling as well as image consulting and costume design. Chloée has worked as an assistant designer for the distinguished fashion house Chloée and as a freelance stylist with Glamour Italia. Chloée studied Fine/Studio Arts at the Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts and Fashion Design and Merchandising at the world renowned ESMOD École Supérieure des Arts in Paris, France. Alicia D'Angelo Makeup Artist & Hair Stylist Alicia D'Angelo is a makeup artist based in New York City. She currently works for teams with Dior Makeup, YSL Beauty and Pat McGrath Labs as well as bridal companies Once Upon A Bride and Miss Harlequinn. Her work has been featured in Today.com, New York Live, Forbes.com, VH1, MTV, Vevo, Entertainment Weekly, Refinery 29, and NYXCosmetics.com. She has a Visual Communications degree from FIDM-Los Angeles. Yuka Arora Makeup Artist Yuka Arora is a self-taught makeup artist who specializes in abstract eye art. She has been experimenting with makeup art for over 5 years, and has amassed over 5.6K Instagram followers in just 5 months. Her colorful and abstract looks have been noticed by Jeffree Star Cosmetics, Kat Von D Beauty, Sephora Collection, among others. Hannah Park Professional Stylist Hannah Park is a professional stylist and personal shopper with experience in e-comm styling, celebrity styling and personal styling. She runs an LA-based styling company, The Styling Agent, where she focuses on understanding each individual she works with, and crafting wardrobes according to their needs. Frankie Sanderson Makeup Artist & Stylist Franklin (Frankie) Sanderson is a Makeup Artist and Stylist and the Founder of TheStudeo, a styling business based in Washington DC that specializes in hairstyling, makeup, and personal image consulting services. He specializes in hair extensions, chemical services such as highlighting, Balayage, Japanese straightening, keratin treatments, and designer cuts. He has a BFA in Fashion Design from Virginia Commonwealth University and has trained at the L'Oreal Soho Academy, TIGI, Vidal Sassoon, Redken, and Wella. His clients include Nicole Kidman, Lindsay Lohan, Rachel McAdams, Tina Fey, Jane Lynch, and Alicia Keys. Susan Kim Professional Stylist Susan Kim is the owner of Sum+Style Co., a Seattle-based personal styling company focused on innovative and approachable fashion. She has over 5 years of experience in the fashion industry, and received her AA from the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising. Arthur Sebastian Professional Hair Stylist Arthur Sebastian is a Professional Hair Stylist based in San Francisco, California. He is the Owner of Arthur Sebastian Hair Salon, a studio offering Hair Styling, Color & Brazilian Blowout services. Arthur has 30 years of experience styling hair. His career began with apprenticeships at Wayne’s Beauty College in Santa Cruz, California Miss Marty’s School of Beauty in San Francisco, California. After receiving his Cosmetology License in 1998, he rented his first station at Wack Shack Hair Salon in San Francisco, going on to hold positions at Posh Hair Salon, Acabello Hair Salon, and Red Union Salon before opening his own studio. With over 500 online customer reviews, Arthur Sebastian Hair Salon has a 5 star average rating on Yelp and 4.9 average review on Google. Michael Van den Abbeel Professional Hair Stylist Michael Van den Abbeel is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Owner of Mosaic Hair Studio and Blowout Bar in Orlando, Florida. He has been cutting, styling, and coloring hair for over 17 years. Michael loves showing his clients how to wash and wear their hair easily and effortlessly. Mosaic Hair Studio and Blowout Bar is recognized as a Diamond Top Tier level Wella salon. Marta Nagorska Nail Artist Marta Nagorska is a Nail Technician and Nail Art Blogger based in London, UK. She runs the blog, Furious Filer, where she gives tutorials on nail care and advanced nail art. She has been practicing nail art for over 5 years and graduated from Northampton College with distinction with a Nail Technician and Manicurist degree in 2017. She has been awarded the top spot in the OPI Nail Art Competition. Diana Yerkes Skincare Professional Diana Yerkes is a Skincare Professional and the Lead Esthetician at Rescue Spa in New York City, New York. With over 15 years of experience, Diana helps others with their skin care needs by incorporating natural and high-performing products and treatments into their routines while providing nutrition insights and educating clients on better skin care habits. Diana is a member of the Associated Skin Care Professionals (ASCP) and holds certifications from the Wellness for Cancer and Look Good Feel Better programs. She received her esthetics education from the Aveda Institute, the International Dermal Institute, and the Biologique Research Academy. Patrick Evan Professional Hair Stylist Patrick Evan is the Owner of Patrick Evan Salon, a hair salon in San Francisco, California. He has been a hairstylist for over 25 years and is a Thermal Reconditioning Specialist, dedicated to transforming difficult curls and waves into sleek, straight hair. Patrick Evan Salon was rated the Best Hair Salon in San Francisco by Allure magazine, and Patrick's work has been featured in Woman’s Day, The Examiner, and 7x7. Jenny Tran Professional Hair Stylist Jenny Tran is a Hair Stylist and the Founder of JT Hair Lab by Jenny Tran based in the Dallas, Texas metro area. With over seven years of professional hair styling experience, Jenny specializes in hair coloring, haircutting, and hair extensions. JT Hair Lab is an authorized carrier of R+Co and of Milbon and is committed to using products with quality ingredients. Martin Nepton Professional Hair Stylist Martin Nepton is a Professional Hair Stylist and Colorist at Bang Bang LA in Los Angeles, California. With over 11 years of experience, Martin specializes in helping clients express their Queer identity through hair. Martin offers personalized haircuts and color and style services with non-gender prices based on hair length. Martin holds a BA from the University of Québec at Montréal and is a Licensed Hair Stylist in California. Daniel Vann Licensed Aesthetician Daniel Vann is the Creative Director for Daredevil Cosmetics, a makeup studio in the Seattle Area. He has been working in the cosmetics industry for over 15 years and is currently a licensed aesthetician and makeup educator. Joanne Gruber Professional Stylist Joanne Gruber is a Professional Stylist based in Los Angeles, California. She has worked in the fashion and style industries for over 10 years, specializing in educating people on the art of re-purposing existing clothing to freshen up a wardrobe. Joanne opened The Closet Stylist in 2007, a personal style service combining wardrobe editing with organization. Joy Cho Designer & Style Expert, Oh Joy! Joy Cho is the Founder and Creative Director of the lifestyle brand and design studio, Oh Joy!, founded in 2005 and based in Los Angeles, California. She has authored six books and consulted for creative businesses around the world. Joy has lectured on business, leadership, and entrepreneurship at conferences and companies such as AltSummit, Pinterest, Target, and Hallmark, while her home and studio have been featured in magazines such as House Beautiful, Parents, and Domino. She has also been named one of Time's 30 Most Influential People on the Internet multiple times and has the most followed account on Pinterest with more than 14 million followers. Karen Leight Professional Hair Stylist Karen Leight is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Owner of Karen Renee Hair, a private salon suite inside the Salon Republic Hollywood in Los Angeles, California. With over 12 years of experience, Karen is a licensed cosmetologist specializing in hair color, balayage technique, and women’s and men’s precision haircuts. Joanna Kula Licensed Esthetician Joanna Kula is a Licensed Esthetician, Owner and Founder of Skin Devotee Facial Studio in Philadelphia. With over 10 years of experience in skincare, Joanna specializes in transformative facial treatments to help clients achieve a lifetime of healthy, beautiful, and radiant skin. She is also a contributing author for the prestigious Les Nouvelles Esthetiques & Spa magazine and has been featured in a number of magazines including InStyle. Katie Quinn Image Consultant Katie Quinn is an Image Consultant, Personal Wardrobe Stylist and the Founder of Q the Stylist, an image consulting service based in New York City helping men and women understand their specific goals, improve their wardrobe, performance, and life. She has over 11 years of image consulting experience and has worked as a stylist for Trunk Club, Modewalk, and Moda Operandi. Her work has been featured in Vogue, InStyle, Martha Stewart Weddings, Sheridan Road, Slate, Newsy, Rue, and Thrillist. Mia Rubie Nail Artist Mia Rubie is a Nail Artist and the Owner of Sparkle San Francisco, a nail studio based in San Francisco, California. She has over eight years of nail artist and management experience and is known for her push-the-envelope designs and artistic eye for colors. Her clients include Sephora, Target, and Vogue. Her work has been featured in the San Francisco Chronicle and StyleCaster. She holds a BBA focusing on Entrepreneurial and Small Business Operations from San Francisco State University. You can find her work on her Instagram account @superflynails. Kristin Pulaski Salon Owner & Nail Specialist Kristin Pulaski is a Professional Nail Artist and the Founder of Paintbucket, a self-owned and operated nail salon based in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. She has over five years of experience running Paintbucket and is licensed as a nail technician. Paintbucket offers nail art manicures, pedicures, and soft gel extensions along with customized packages for wedding and bridal parties. She holds a BA in Managerial Science from Manhattan College. Gina Almona Professional Hair Stylist Gina Almona is the Owner of Blo It Out, a New York City-based hair salon. With over 20 years of beauty training experience, Gina's work has been featured in People Magazine, Time Out New York, and Queens Scene. She has been able to keep a fresh perspective in the industry by demonstrating and participating in trade shows and workshops like the International Beauty Show. She received her cosmetology training from the Long Island Beauty School, Astoria. April Ferri Professional Hair Stylist April Ferri is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Co-Owner of Widows Peak Salon, a hair salon based in Los Angeles, California. With over ten years of experience, April specializes in hair coloring and enhancing and transforming natural tones into vibrant shades for beautiful and low maintenance hair. Her work has been featured in Voyage LA Magazine, and she has worked as a stylist for LA Fashion Week. Nicole Wegman Jewelry Professional & Founder of Ring Concierge Nicole Wegman is the Founder and CEO of Ring Concierge, a New York City-based fine jewelry brand. Specializing in engagement ring and wedding band trends, Ring Concierge creates a luxury experience catered towards millennials. Ring Concierge offers engagement rings along with earrings, necklaces, bracelets, and anklets. Nicole's work and Ring Concierge have been featured in Vogue, Glamour, Who What Wear, Martha Stewart Weddings, Brides, and Cosmopolitan. Nicole is a GIA (Gemological Institute of America) Accredited Jewelry Professional and holds a BS in Fiber Science and Apparel Design from Cornell University. Lindsay Yoshitomi Nail Artist Lindsay Yoshitomi is the nail artist behind the blog, Lacquered Lawyer. She was featured as one of Nail It! magazine’s “Bloggers You Should Know,” and has been on the cover of Nail Art Gallery Magazine. She has been practicing nail art for over 15 years. Timmy Yanchun Professional Barber Timmy Yanchun is a Professional Barber and Co-Founder of Svelte Barbershop + Essentials. Svelte Barbershop + Essentials is a men’s grooming company, specializing in men’s hair, beard, skin, and shave products, originally located in the SLS Hotel in Beverly Hills, California but has now branched out to 3 locations across Los Angeles. Timmy has been cutting hair since age 13 and opened his first of 6 barbershops at age 18. He is also the co-founder of the newly launched brand LTHR, the world's first wireless hot lather machine for barber quality shaves at home. Timmy and Svelte have been featured in GQ, Men's Fitness, and Hypebeast. Lynda Jean Certified Image Consultant Lynda Jean is an Image Consultant and the Owner of Lynda Jean Image Consulting. With over 15 years of experience, Lynda specializes in color and body/style analysis, wardrobe audits, personal shopping, social and professional etiquette, and personal and business branding. She works with clients to enhance their image, self-esteem, behavior, and communication to facilitate their social and career goals. Lynda holds Bachelor degrees in Sociology and Social Work, a Master’s degree in Clinical Social Work, and a Certified Image Consultant (CIC) certification. She studied Image Consulting at the International Image Institute and the International Academy of Fashion and Technology in Toronto, Canada. Lynda has taught Image Consulting courses at George Brown College in Toronto, Canada. She is the co-author of the book, “Business Success With Ease,” where she shares her knowledge about, ‘The Power of Professional Etiquette.’ Candace Hanna Professional Stylist Candace Hanna is a stylist and style expert based in Southern California. With 16 years of experience in the corporate fashion and personal styling realms, she runs Style by Candace, a personal styling agency that focuses on helping individuals find their personal expression through clothing. Her work has been featured in magazines such as Shoutout LA and VoyageLA. Natalie Kay Smith Sustainable Fashion Writer Natalie Kay Smith is a sustainable fashion writer and the owner of Sustainably Chic, a sustainability-focused blog. Natalie has over 5 years of sustainable fashion and green living writing and has worked with over 400 conscious brands all over the world to show readers fashion can exist responsibly and sustainably. Madeleine Johnson Hair Stylist & Hair Extensions Specialist Madeleine Johnson is a Hair Stylist and Hair Extensions Specialist based in Beverly Hills, California. She is affiliated with Hair by Violet Salon in Beverly Hills. Madeleine has over six years of hairstyling experience as a licensed cosmetologist. She specializes in microbead extensions and tape-in extensions. She trained under celebrity extension artist Violet Teriti (Chaviv Hair) and earned her cosmetology license from Santa Monica College. Kpoene Kofi-Bruce Couture Bridal Designer Kpoene Kofi-Bruce is a tailor, couture wedding gown designer, and the Creative Director of Mignonette Bridal and Ette the Wedding Tailor in Chicago, Illinois. With nearly two decades of experience as a wedding gown designer, small business owner, and vintage sewing enthusiast, Kpoene specializes in wedding gown design and the social history of wedding dresses. She received a BA in Creative Writing from Middlebury College and studied the business of fashion at the Fashion Institute of Technology. She is also a graduate of the Goldman Sachs 10KSB program and the Chicago Fashion Incubator and has written about wedding fashion for Jezebel, Catalyst, the Sun Times, and XO Jane. Karissa Sanford Body Piercing Specialist Karissa Sanford is the Co-owner of Make Me Holey Body Piercing, a piercing studio based in the San Francisco Bay Area that specializes in safe and friendly body piercing. Karissa has over 10 years of piercing experience and is a member of the Association of Professional Piercers (APP). Penny Simmons Shoe Care Specialist Penny Simmons is a Shoe Care Specialist and the Founder of Penny Loafers Shoe Shine Company Inc. in Toronto, Canada. With over 25 years of experience, Penny specializes in shoe cleaning and shining. Penny offers shoe shining at special events, kiosks in Toronto’s underground city, The PATH, and drop-off services. Penny Loafers Shoe Shine Company also operates the oldest shoeshine parlor in Canada. Penny Loafers Shoe Shine Company has been featured in Best of The City - Toronto Life, Saturday Night Magazine, National Post, Globe & Mail, and Toronto Star. Rio Jongsae Kim Designer Shoe & Bag Care Specialist Rio Jongsae Kim is a Designer Shoe and Bag Repair Specialist and the Owner of Kim’s Shoe & Bag Repair in Vancouver, BC, Canada. With over 40 years of experience, Rio and Kim’s Shoe & Bag Repair specialize in the repair and reconstruction of leather and luxury goods including shoes, handbags, and accessories. Rio’s experience and dedication to quality repair and restoration have led to his work being featured on Yahoo, Insider, and MSN. Alessio Iadicicco Apparel Manufacturing Specialist Alessio Iadicicco is an Apparel Manufacturing Specialist based in Dallas, Texas. He was the CEO and Co-Founder of MarkersValley, an online apparel and manufacturer sourcing platform that connects luxury fashion brands to a network of highly-vetted, truly Italian manufacturers. After 6 years building MarkersValley, he transitioned into a career as a SBA Lender, currently working as VP of the SBA Business Development Office at U.S. Bank. Through this role, he helps small business owners secure the SBA funding they need to thrive. He holds a Bachelor's degree in Economy and Management of Financial Enterprises from The University of Naples Federico II. MarkersValley has connected fashion brands in over 100 countries and has a network of over 100 independent Italian factories and artisans. MarkersValley has been featured in Forbes, EQ, St. Louis Business Journal, Il Mattino, and Corriere Della Sera. Steven Waldman Professional Hair Stylist Steven Waldman is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Director of Technical Training at Hair Cuttery. Steven uses his creative insight and extensive experience to drive educational programming and motivates facilitators and learners to communicate effectively, create and execute strategies to maximize potential, and achieve success. He uses unexpected sources such as art genres, architecture, and cooking to inspire shape, color, and cuts. Dina Scherer Wardrobe Stylist & Personal Shopper Dina Scherer is an Image and Wardrobe Stylist and the Founder of Modnitsa Styling, based in Sarasota, FL. With over a decade of experience, Dina specializes in color analysis, style development, closet editing, and personal shopping. She helps her clients elevate their personal style and curate a wardrobe aligned with their lifestyle. Modnitsa Styling has been featured in Business Insider, the New York Times, The Strategist, Bloomberg, and more. Dina holds degrees in Advertising and Marketing, Fashion Merchandising, and a Certificate in Image Consulting from the Fashion Institute of Technology. Sarah McDonald Certified Stylist & Image Consultant Sarah McDonald is a Certified Stylist and Image Consultant and the Owner of Pivotal Style. She helps both men and women feel confident through clothing by guiding them on how to dress based on body type, color tone, lifestyle, and personal and professional goals. Sarah received her Image and Style Professional Certification from The Fashion Stylist Institute. Noël Reid-Killings Celebrity Hair Stylist Noël Reid-Killings is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Owner of Noël New York Salon & Boutique. With over a decade of experience, Noël specializes in curating and customizing hair solutions for all hair types and textures. She has worked with countless A-list celebrities including Alicia Keys, Ciara, Yara Shahidi, and Simone Missick. Her work has been featured on makeover shows and in magazines including Essence, Sophisticates Black Hair, Teen Vogue, Elle, 21Ninety, WWD, POPSUGAR, Allure, The Cut, The Huffington Post, and Swaay. Stephanie Fajardo Professional Stylist Stephanie Fajardo is a Personal Stylist based in Portland, Oregon. Stephanie has over 17 years of styling experience in personal consulting, television, photography, and film shoots. Her work has been featured in Esquire Magazine and Portland Fashion Week. Ashley Kahn Wardrobe Stylist Ashley Kahn is a Wardrobe Stylist based in Houston, Texas. With over 10 years of experience, Ashley styles women both in-person and virtually and is passionate about empowering women through the art of personal style. She believes every woman deserves to feel comfortable, classy, and confident every single day. Ashley holds a business degree from Sam Houston State University. She has been featured on KPRC's Channel 2 Houston Life and ABC 13's Check This Out Houston and in the Houstonia magazine. Ashley has also hosted Macy’s “The Wardrobe Edit” and the “It List” fashion shows. Janet Miranda Professional Hair Stylist & Makeup Artist Janet Miranda is a Professional Hair Stylist, Makeup Artist, and the Founder of Be.NYLA. With over 15 years of experience, Janet specializes in makeup and hair for advertising, commercial, editorial, runway, special events, television, and videos. She was trained at Vidal Sassoon Academy and with top hair and makeup artists including MAC Cosmetics and Redken. Janet has worked five seasons of New York Fashion Week and one season on Project Runway. She continues to add brands to her growing client list including Armani Exchange, Neutrogena, and Pantene. Janet’s work has been featured on CBS, Brides Magazine, 100 Layer Cake, Style Me Pretty, Green Wedding Shoes, Ireland Image Brides Magazine, and Elle Japan. Traci Halvorson Modeling Agent Traci Halvorson is a Modeling Agent, Former Model, and the Owner of Halvorson Model Management (HMM) in San Jose, California. HMM is a full-service, licensed talent agency representing over 300 professional models and actors. With over 25 years of experience in the modeling industry, Traci specializes in scouting, managing, advising, and launching modeling careers in the Bay Area. Traci holds a BA in Public Relations & Business Management from San Jose State University and also specializes in Marketing, Image consulting, and is a certified Life-Career Coach. Christina Santelli Professional Stylist Christina Santelli is the Owner and Founder of Style Me New, a wardrobe styling concierge based in Tampa, Florida. She has been working as a stylist for over six years, and her work has been featured in HSN, the Pacific Heights Wine and Food Festival, and the Nob Hill Gazette. Carroll Kelly Shoe Care Specialist Carroll Kelly is a Shoe Care Specialist and the Owner of Austin Shoe Hospital in Austin, Texas. With over 37 years of experience, Carroll specializes in sustainable shoes, boots, belts, handbags, and luggage repair. Carroll graduated with a Bachelor’s degree from the University of Texas. Austin Shoe Hospital is a family-run business that started over 105 years ago from a single horse-drawn carriage. Today they are the largest and most recognized shoe repair company in the world. Katya Gudaeva Professional Makeup Artist Katya Gudaeva is a Professional Makeup Artist and the Founder of Bridal Beauty Agency based in Seattle, Washington. She has worked in the beauty industry for over 10 years and worked with companies such as Patagonia, Tommy Bahama, and Barneys New York and with clients such as Amy Schumer, Macklemore, and Train. Tannya Bernadette Professional Stylist Tannya Bernadette is the Founder of The Closet Edit, a Seattle-based personal styling service. She has been in the fashion industry for over 10 years and has been recognized as Ann Taylor’s LOFT brand ambassador and Seattle Southside’s official Rockstar Stylist. Tannya received her BA in Fashion Marketing and Business from The Art Institutes. Tymia Yvette Makeup & Lash Artist Tymia Yvette is a Makeup and Lash Artist and the founder of Tymia Yvette Beauty LLC, a makeup artistry and lash extension company focused on customized beauty services based in Baltimore, Maryland. Trained by MAC Cosmetics, Tymia's work has been featured in the Bravo A-List Awards 2008, the BET Honors Award Show in 2011, 2012, and 2013, the Mercedes-Benz New York Fashion Week 2011, 2012, and 2013, and the White House Correspondent's Dinner in 2014. She has also provided makeup and lash services for the Betsy Royal Casting Agency and the Baltimore Raven's cheerleading squad from 2010 to 2012. Her clients include Terrence Howard, Torrey Smith, Lester Holt, Adrienne Lofton, and Natasha Hastings. She has been awarded WeddingWire's Couple's Choice Award in 2017, 2018, and 2019. Natalie Tincher Style Strategist & Wardrobe Specialist Natalie Tincher is the Owner and Principal Style Strategist of BU Style. Since 2010, Natalie has specialized in personal styling to reflect clients’ individuality, confidence, and comfort. In 2019, she was named the Global Head of Styling for Bloomberg Television. Natalie is certified in Image Consulting through the Fashion Institute of Technology. She regularly shares her expertise with corporate groups at major financial institutions, media companies, and news outlets including: Time Out New York, Refinery 29, and NBC News. Cassandra Sethi Personal Stylist & Image Consultant Cassandra Sethi is a Personal Stylist, Image Consultant, and the Founder of Next Level Wardrobe, a luxury personal styling service for busy professionals. With over 20 years of fashion industry experience, Cassandra helps people transform their confidence by creating a work wardrobe they love to wear. Cassandra holds a BA in Fashion Merchandising from California State University, Long Beach, and a Postgraduate Certificate in Fashion Buying and Merchandising from the London College of Fashion. She created Soulcycle's retail business and was the Senior Buyer for 90+ Equinox gyms. Cassandra has been featured on New York’s PIX11 in an interview about how to achieve great work-from-home style as well as in Men's Health, Business of Fashion, and NYMag. Nikia Londy Hair Augmentation Specialist Nikia Londy is a Hair Augmentation Specialist and the Founder and CEO of Intriguing Hair, a one-stop solution for women from all ethnicities wanting to purchase high-quality human hair extensions, hairpieces, and wigs. With over 16 years of experience, she specializes in artificial hair integrations, hair extensions, hair loss, hairpieces and wigs, and non-surgical hair replacement. Nikia holds a BA in Organizational Leadership from Charter Oak State College and received her Cosmetology Certification from Blaine Beauty School. She is also a member of the American Hair Loss Council. Joseph Harwood Beauty, DEI & Social Media Expert Joseph (JoJo) Harwood is a Beauty, DEI & Social Media Expert, Artist, CEO of Joseph Hartwood Ltd, and Creative Director of Team Baron Group. With over 15 years of experience, they specialize in all aspects of beauty, digital media production, and supporting diversity and inclusion efforts in businesses. JoJo has pioneered YouTube content and branding, with over 100 million views on their YouTube tutorial content and was the first and only winner of Simon Cowell's You Generation Competition. They studied an MSc in Cosmetic Science from the London College of Fashion, combining a technical understanding of cosmetics with beauty expertise. Daniel Gbenle Sneaker Authenticator & Founder of Certisfied Daniel Gbenle is a sneaker authenticator and founder of Certisfied based in Atlanta, GA. With over 10 years of experience in authenticating sneakers, Daniel’s work redefines how shopping works, both online and offline, by creating a streamlined, hassle-free process for clients to have their luxury brand products authenticated. Certisfied is an authentication company that physically reviews and authenticates luxury goods by combining physical examination with cutting edge technology to offer satisfaction for goods purchased. Certisfied offers authentication on a variety of products, including bags, shoes, clothing apparel, watches, electronics, and other accessories. Certisfied has built the first authentication hub where buyers and sellers can meet locally to verify items before money changes hands. For online shoppers, Certisfied offers a seamless mail-in service that allows customers to ship products directly to their facility at purchase or through a prepaid label, with authentication promised within 1-3 days. Shara Strand Makeup Artist Shara Strand is a Makeup Artist and the Founder of Shara Makeup Studio, a makeup and image consulting studio based in New York City. She has over 15 years of image and makeup consulting experience including working as a regional artist for Bare Escentuals and Estee Lauder, Saks 5th Avenue, Bloomingdales, and Bergdorf Goodman. Her work has been featured in WNBC, Fox 5, Direct TV ABC morning news, and Hamptons Magazine. She is the creator of Shara Cosmetics and is a two time Billboard charted singer. She holds a BFA from New York University. Lorena Barcal Clinical Herbalist & Clean Beauty Specialist Lorena Barcal is a Clinical Herbalist, Clean Beauty Specialist, and Writer for IslandBeauty.co, a blog dedicated to sharing the benefits of using all-natural beauty products and recipes created by herbalists. Lorena specializes in studying and developing natural alternatives for beauty products. After finishing her herbal studies, Lorena managed an herbal lab in Barcelona developing natural beauty products. As a writer for IslandBeauty.co, she shares knowledge and insights to promote the natural beauty industry. Luca Buzas Makeup Artist & Wardrobe Stylist Luca Buzas is makeup artist, wardrobe stylist and creative coordinator based in Los Angeles, California with over 10 years of experience. Luca focuses her work on photo shoots, films, commercials, and web content. She has worked with brands such as Champion, Gillette, Disney, and The North Face and with celebrities such as Magic Johnson, Julia Michaels, and Chris Hemsworth. She has a Bachelors in Wardrobe Styling from Mod'Art International Hungary. Andrea Beaulieu Professional Tailor & Fashion Designer Andrea Beaulieu is a Professional Tailor, Fashion Designer, and the Owner of MOORE, a Brooklyn, New York based storefront and apparel workshop for gender-neutral, contemporary streetwear as well as custom-tailored products. Andrea has over 20 years in the fashion design and marketing industries and specializes in pattern making, draping, and the construction of garments. She holds a BS in Fashion Design and Merchandising from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Moe Draper Shoe Care & Repair Specialist Moe Draper is a Shoe Care and Repair Specialist based in Detroit, Michigan. Moe is the Owner of Detroit Shoe Shine and Shoe Repair. With over 20 years of experience as a cobbler, Moe specializes in shoe shining, cosmetic restorations for quality leather goods, and minor/major shoe repair services. Moe and his staff at Detroit Shoe Shine and Repair have over 30 years of combined experience and knowledge. In addition to his brick and mortar business, Moe has a mobile shoe repair business where he travels to perform shoe shines for clients. Moe frequently gives back to his community by offering his services to law enforcement officers and other valued patrons. Moe and his business were featured for their work in the community in the Detroit Free Press. Christin Birckhead Makeup Artist Christin Birckhead is a Makeup Artist and the Founder of Conceptual Beauty, a beauty service based in Washington, DC specializing in wedding services such as engagements and bridal parties along with fashion shows and executive headshots. She has over 20 years of makeup and beauty consulting experience. She is also the lead makeup artist for Ascender Communications and freelances with the local NBC news team in the DC metro area. Her clients include Nancy Pelosi, Nancy Cartwright, Armin Van Buuren, Hugh Jackman, Vashawn Mitchell, Richard Smallwood, Benjamin T. Jealous, Colin Powell, Wanda Durant, and Former Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Cassandra McClure Makeup Artist Cassandra McClure is a clean beauty advocate, working to increase use of sustainable and healthy cosmetics, based in Palo Alto, California. She has worked in the beauty and cosmetic industries for over 15 years, as a model, makeup artist, and entrepreneur. She has a Masters in High Definition Makeup from the MKC Beauty Academy. Matt King Director of Education, Fox and Jane Salon Group Matt King is the Director of Education at Fox and Jane Salon Group. With over 15 years of experience and expertise in cutting and coloring hair, he specializes in crafting trend-forward and technically savvy training and development materials for hairstylists. Matt received his cosmetology education from The Blaine Beauty School. Kelly Chu Professional Makeup Artist Kelly is the lead makeup artist and educator of the Soyi Makeup and Hair team that is based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Soyi Makeup and Hair specializes in wedding and event makeup and hair. Over the past 5 years, the team has created bridal looks for over 800 brides in America, Asia, and Europe. Michelle Myles Tattoo Artist & Co-owner, Daredevil Tattoo Michelle Myles is the Co-owner of Daredevil Tattoo, a tattoo shop located based in New York City's Lower East Side. Michelle has more than 20 years of tattooing experience. She also operates the Daredevil Tattoo Museum, co-owner Brad Fink's personal collection of antique tattoo memorabilia that he has amassed over the last 27 years of tattooing. Devorah Kuperland Makeup Artist Devorah Kuperland is a Makeup Artist and the Founder of Glam By Dev, a New York City-based business specializing in bridal, special events, and editorial campaigns. Devorah has over five years of professional makeup consulting experience and her work has been featured in New York's Bridal Fashion Week. Karina Villalta Certified Esthetician Karina Villalta is a certified Esthetician and Owner of Oh Sweet and Sugar and Shears, a skincare and hair removal service located in Seattle and Kirkland, Washington. With over eight years of experience, Karina specializes in eyebrow shaping, a hair removal technique called sugaring, and organic facials. Karina started her career and was trained at Benefit Cosmetics Brow Bar. Since opening her own business, Karina ensures her clients are educated about their skin and helps them implement personalized skincare routines. Danielle Chiz Professional Hair Stylist Danielle Chiz is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Owner of bubu nyc Hair Artist Studio based in New York, New York. She specializes in hair coloring and styling as well as crafting a personalized hair experience. Danielle holds a BA in Biology from the University of Rochester. Marty Morales Professional Massage Therapist Marty Morales is a Professional Massage Therapist and the Founder and Owner of the Morales Method, a manual therapy and body conditioning business based in the San Francisco Bay Area and in Los Angeles, California. Marty has over 16 years of massage therapist experience and over 13 years of experience educating others on the best practices for massage therapy. Marty has over 10,000 hours of private practice logged and is a Certified Advanced Rolfer and Rolf Movement Practitioner, CMT. He has an MBA in Finance from Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles. Woody Lovell Professional Barber Woody Lovell is the Founder of The Barbershop Club, a gentleman's barbershop-as-social club rooted in 1990's traditional barbering based in the Hotel Normandie in Los Angeles, California. He is also the Founder of his own line of quality grooming products. He has over 20 years of experience in the male grooming industry and has consulted clients including professional athletes, musicians, and A-list actors throughout the Los Angeles area. Ashleigh Grounds Makeup Artist & Hair Stylist Ashleigh Grounds is a Makeup Artist and Hair Stylist based in Austin, Texas. Ashleigh has over 11 years of cosmetology experience. She studied cosmetology in Dallas, Texas and completed a two-year hair salon apprenticeship in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia with Toni & Guy Hair Salon. She is accredited by the International Board of Cosmetology, is a certified Babe Hair Extension Professional, and is a certified Brazilian Blow Out Professional. Ashleigh was voted the best Hair Stylist in Austin for 2012 by RAW Artists and was voted in the top 20 salons for 2020 in Austin by Expertise. Ashleigh's work has been featured in Talentmagazines, BlogTalkRadio, KXAN, and Studio 512. Alana Schober Pout Pro Makeup Artist Alana Schober is a Professional Makeup Artist at Pout by Lipsticknick, an inclusive beauty bar in Los Angeles, California. With over a decade of experience, Alana specializes in hair and makeup. As a Licensed Comselotologist, she has worked for both MAC Cosmetics and Paul Mitchell. Alana's celebrity clientele includes Iggy Azalea, Solange, YG, and ASAP Nast. She has worked on campaigns with Nike, Adidas, Morphe, Jaclyn Hill Cosmetics, and Quay. Alana has also worked on countless music videos and photoshoots and her work has been featured on two billboards in Los Angeles. Erica Coates Professional Makeup Artist Erica Coates is a Professional Makeup Artist and the Owner of Erica Nicole Beauty based in the Washington D.C. metro area. With more than 14 years of experience, she specializes in creating and personalizing makeup looks and skin prep for makeup. Erica received her cosmetology training from the Bennett Career Institute. Brianna Bowling Hair Stylist Brianna Bowling is a Hair Stylist and the Co-Owner of The CRAFT Salon in Glendora, California. With more than 11 years of experience, she specializes in balayage, blonding, and vivid colors. Brianna has received years of in-depth training on advanced color techniques. Melynda Choothesa Professional Stylist & Fashion Designer Melynda Choothesa is a Costume Designer, Wardrobe Stylist, and Art Director with over 10 years of fashion consulting experience. She has worked on creative direction for fashion shows, costume design, and personal wardrobe styling, both in Los Angeles, California and internationally for clients such as Akon, Kathy Ireland, and Aisha Tyler. She has an Associate of Arts in Fashion Design from Santa Monica College. Juan Sabino Professional Barber Juan Sabino is a Professional Barber and the Owner of Juan's Barber Shop, a barbershop based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Juan has over 20 years of male grooming experience and over eight years of professional barber experience. He specializes in combovers, barber fades, and tapers and is focused on improving men's overall wellness. JoAnn Solomon Master Beauty Consultant & Celebrity Makeup Artist JoAnn Solomon is a Celebrity Makeup and Hair Artist, Beauty Consultant, and Founder of JoAnn Solomon Beauty, a beauty service in New York, New York. With over 15 years of experience, JoAnn specializes in beauty consulting and writing, makeup and hair artistry, product training, and creative directing. She is a licensed cosmetologist and esthetician and is certified in Airbrush Makeup. JoAnn has been published in Glamour Magazine and Lipstick.com. She is also a beauty contributor for Condé Nast, The List, Essence, Style Bistro, Family Circle, and Nylon Magazine. Her looks have been showcased in editorial, fashion, television, and red carpet events. A few of JoAnn’s celebrity clients include Beyoncé Knowles, Dr. Joe Biden, Alicia Keys, and Quincy Jones. Ivy Boyd Makeup Artist Ivy Boyd is a Makeup Artist and the Creator of the beauty blog, Ivy Boyd Makeup. With nearly a decade of makeup experience, Ivy specializes in makeup services for weddings, special events, and editorial photoshoots. She holds a BA in Graphic Design from The University of Northern Iowa. Ivy was a finalist in the Allure Beauty Blogger Awards and has been featured in numerous media publications such as People Magazine and Brides Magazine. Wyvetta Bowles Beauty & Hair Care Advisor Wyvetta Bowles is a Beauty and Hair Care Advisor and the Founder of Crown of Glory Beauty Salon Inc. With over 27 years of experience, Wyvetta specializes in bridal and special event hair and makeup, hair care maintenance, and hairstyling techniques that lead to less damage. Wyvetta attended Flair Beauty College and received her Associate’s in Cosmetology and Related Personal Grooming Services. Burak Moreno Tattoo Artist Burak Moreno is a Professional Tattoo Artist with over 15 years of experience. Burak is based in New York City and is a co-owner and tattoo artist for Fleur Noire Tattoo Parlour in Brooklyn. Born and raised in Istanbul, Turkey, he has worked as a tattoo artist throughout Europe. He works on many different styles but mostly does bold lines and strong color. You can find more of his tattoo designs on Instagram @burakmoreno. Nejla Renee Fashion Stylist & Image Consultant Nejla Renee is a fashion stylist, image consultant, and personal shopper based in New York, New York. With over seven years of experience, Nejla specializes in helping people enhance their positive attributes and express their identities through style. Nejla holds a BS in Marketing and Finance from Northeastern University and worked in finance prior to starting her own business. Nejla combines her business experience with her personal creativity, passion, keen eye for detail, innate sense of style, and strong understanding of fit and proportion to help her clients create peace and acceptance around their style. Alena Le Blanc Personal Stylist Alena Le Blanc is the Personal Stylist and the Founder of Le Blanc Label. Based in San Francisco, California, Le Blanc Label is the leading personal stylist brand for sustainable style transformations. Alena and her team specialize in seasonal wardrobe refreshes, closet edits, styling for special events, travel, photoshoots, and general personal needs. Alena has been featured in podcasts including EMPOWERED BY WMN, I Am Fearless, and Mind Power Meets Mystic. Alena received her BFA in Fashion and Apparel Design from the Academy of Art University. Nine Morrison Beauty Consultant Nine Morrison is the owner of WedLocks Bridal Hair & Makeup, the largest bridal beauty company in Colorado. Her work has been featured in Brides Magazine, The Knot, and by Moroccanoil, and her company replicates this standard across 400+ weddings per year. She has been in the beauty industry for over 10 years, and also travels as a beauty educator and business consultant. Bianca Cox Professional Hair Stylist Bianca Cox is a Hair Stylist, Licensed Cosmetologist, Owner of The Hair Throne, and Co-Owner of Bianchi Salon. Her salons pride themselves on their modernity, individuality, art, and professional services. You can check out The Hair Throne and more of Bianca's hairstyling on Instagram @hairthrone and on her personal Instagram @biancajcox. Charina Redugerio Makeup Artist Charina Redugerio is a Makeup Artist based in New York City. With over 13 years of experience in the beauty industry, Charina has worked for Sephora, NARS Cosmetics, L'Oreal, Parfums Christian Dior, Natasha Denona Makeup, and is now a freelance makeup artist. She has conducted makeup for numerous fashion week shows, editorial shoots, and one-on-one client makeovers. She has worked and trained with several global celebrity makeup artists including Dior's Ricky Wilson. Tiffany Carnevale-Russo Licensed Cosmetologist Tiffany Carnevale-Russo is a Licensed Cosmetologist and Chief Operating Officer at Jaxson Maximus, a men’s salon and custom clothiers based in southern Florida. With over 19 years of beauty industry experience, she specializes in haircuts and hairstyling for men and building salon brands. Tiffany received her Cosmetology License from Paul Mitchell the School Rhode Island. Ashley Adams Professional Hair Stylist Ashley Adams is a Licensed Cosmetologist and Hair Stylist in Illinois. She completed her Cosmetology education at John Amico School of Hair Design in 2016. David Pew Professional Tailor David Pew is a Professional Tailor based in Seattle, Washington. He owns his own tailoring business, Sew Generously, which he founded in 2013. With over 15 years of experience, David specializes in bespoke tailoring and alterations. He uses his experiences, skills, and eye for detail to produce the highest quality of products. David believes in creating garments with the finest materials that are built to last, and is a dedicated craftsman. Through Sew Generously’s website, David runs a blog, Stitching Confidential, where he writes on different topics in the tailoring, fashion, and art worlds. The business also hosts Sew Generously Galleries, quarterly art shows where they invite local artists to display their art, host workshops, and perform for the community at their shop. David received a BA in German and French from Western Washington University. Margo West Professional Tailor Margo West is a Professional Tailor and the Owner of Margo West Bridal Alterations in Dallas, Texas. She is renowned for her expertise in bridal alterations, custom wedding gowns, wedding-related design, and pattern making. Her 44 years of bridal experience has earned her the prestigious WeddingWire Brides Choice Award, Couples Choice Award 2013-2019, and The Knot Best of Weddings 2018-2020. Margo was also featured in House of Diffa 2018 Jacket Collection and Modern Luxury Brides Magazine 2020. She will launch her new bridal gown collection for fall 2021. Sarah Kosakowski Professional Hair Stylist Sarah Kosakowski is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Owner of Alba Salon and Spa based in Cincinnati, Ohio. With a decade of experience, she specializes in bridal and formal hair, blondes, fine hair, and men’s cuts. Sarah received her training at The Aveda Frederic’s Institute and is proud to be a Kevin Murphy Session stylist amongst other accomplishments. Kelsey Morey Professional Hair and Makeup Artist Kelsey Morey is a Professional Hair and Makeup Artist, Model and the Owner and Founder of Haus of Pretty based in Westport, Connecticut. With more than ten years of experience, she specializes in balayage, hair care, color care, and photoshoot styling. Kelsey received her training from Brio Academy of Cosmetology and John Casablancas Modeling and Career Center. She also completed her apprenticeship with Warren Tricomi luxury salons. Neepa Sikdar Personal Stylist Neepa Sikdar is a Personal Stylist and the Founder of Accessible Style. With 18 years of fashion experience, she specializes in working with female leaders to develop their style through personal styling, brand styling, and online styling.  She also coaches women on personal style through her membership program. Neepa has worked with brands such as Nordstrom and J. Crew and has been featured in publications such as Business Insider. She holds a BS in Economics and English from Rutgers University and trained in styling through Fashion Institute of Technology. Stephanie Anders Owner, Royal Heritage Tattoo and Piercing Stephanie Anders is a jeweler and piercer based in Los Angeles, California. With over 10 years of piercing experience, Stephanie opened her first tattoo and piercing studio in 2016. With her experience in the body piercing industry and creative passion for fine jewelry, she later founded SXO Studios and created a fine jewelry line that is safe for piercing. Stephanie has also traveled and worked with clients all over the world, with her client list including such stars as Jennifer Aniston, Jessica Alba, Cameron Diaz, Nicole Richie, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Sharon Osbourne. Grant Lubbock Tattoo Artist & Co-Owner, Red Baron Ink Grant Lubbock is a Tattoo Artist and Co-Owner of Red Baron Ink, a tattoo salon based in New York City. Grant has over 10 years of tattooing experience and he specializes in neo-traditional, black/grey, and color tattoos. Red Baron Ink's main goal is for each tattoo coming out of their studio to be one of a kind custom pieces that will look good throughout a lifetime. Seleh Rahman Professional Tailor & Furrier Seleh Rahman is a Tailor, Furrier, and the Owner of Seleh de Federal Hill in Baltimore, Maryland. With over 45 years of experience, Seleh specializes in fur, alterations, and fashion illustration. Seleh studied Fashion Design and Tailoring at Bay College of Maryland. He holds certifications in fur, design, and tailoring. Marius Morf Salon Owner Marius Morf is the Salon Owner of PREP in San Francisco, CA. Marius owns and operates 5 salons and has over 10 years of experience in the industry. Marius and his “salonbershops” serve all genders and ages and specialize in cuts, coloring, and general hair care. David Wilkins Professional Body Piercer David Wilkins is a Professional Body Piercer and the Owner of The Axiom Body Piercing Studio in Des Moines, Iowa. David has been working in the industry since 1994 and is knowledgeable about all aspects of the body piercing industry. He runs an educational YouTube channel specializing in sharing expert body piercings and tattoo information. He completed his apprenticeship in body piercing in Omaha, Nebraska. Kimberly Tan Licensed Esthetician Kimberly Tan is the Founder & CEO of Skin Salvation, an acne clinic in San Francisco. She has been a licensed esthetician for over 15 years and is an expert in mainstream, holistic, and medical ideologies in skin care. She has worked directly under Laura Cooksey of Face Reality Acne Clinic and studied in-person with Dr. James E. Fulton, Co-creator of Retin-a and pioneer of acne research. Her business blends skin treatments, effective products, and education in holistic health and sustainability. Amber Rose Licensed Cosmetologist Amber Rose is a Licensed Cosmetologist and the Founder and Owner of Quality Style Weaves and Braids Salon in Orlando, Florida. With over ten years of experience, Amber is experienced in twists, braids, weaves, cutting, styling, and conditioning treatments. She specializes in hair growth for all hair types. Tavia Sharp Certified Image Consultant Tavia Sharp is a Certified Image Consultant and the Founder of Styled Sharp. With more than 20 years of corporate fashion experience, she specializes in helping others build a brand image through personal style, appearance, behavior, communication, and digital presence. Tavia holds a BS in Fashion and Apparel Design from The University of Delaware and has her Corporate Consultant Certification from The Academy of Image Mastery. Nick Arrojo Master Hair Stylist Nick Arrojo is a Master Hair Stylist and the Owner and Founder of Arrojo NYC, an independent hairdressing brand. With over 35 years of experience, he specializes in cutting and styling hair using precision-based hairdressing and educating hair professionals through Arrojo Education. Nick has become a well-known icon in the hair industry with his internationally recognized razor-cutting technique, work with fashion designers, and seven years as TLC’s ‘What Not to Wear’ hairdressing host. Anjuli Yera, MD Certified Professional Makeup Artist Dr. Anjuli Yera is a Certified Professional Makeup Artist based out of West Palm Beach, FL. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in makeup artistry, airbrush application, and bridal and wedding party makeup. Her work has been featured in St. Louis Bride, STL Today as well as the Miami Times. She has received the WeddingWire Couples’ Choice Award, Best of The Knot Award, and Top Pro Status on Thumbtack. Additionally, Anjuli has been invited to KSDK’s, 'Show Me St. Louis,' to cover Makeup Trends of the year.  Anjuli is a self-taught professional makeup artist who received further training from the Artistry Makeup Academy. Dorasae Rosario Costume Designer and Cosplayer Dorasae Rosario is a costume designer and cosplayer based in Cincinnati, Ohio. With over 10 years of experience cosplaying, she is inspired by anime, video games, and comic books. Dorasae, also known as Akakioga Cosplay, is self-taught and focuses on sewing, working with a variety of textiles, EVA foam armor building, and creating unique wigs when crafting her cosplay. Akakioga has experience with guesting at both domestic and international conventions, as well as judging costume contests, running panels, teaching workshops, and building community. Akakioga is passionate about spreading positivity and advocating for people of color in the cosplay world. Her work has been featured by Blizzard Entertainment, Cincinnati Magazine, Cosplay Culture Magazine, VIZ Media, and more. Veronica Tharmalingam Professional Stylist Veronica Tharmalingam is a Personal Stylist who runs her fashion consulting business, SOS Fashion, in Los Angeles, California and Paris, France. She has over 10 years of experience crafting stylish wardrobes for men and women. Veronica is also a professional model and has worked with international brands like Harrods, LVMH, and L'Oreal. Sasha Blue Professional Body Piercer Sasha Blue is a Professional Body Piercer and the Owner of 13 Bats Tattoo and Piercing Studio in the San Francisco Bay Area. Sasha has over 20 years of professional body piercing experience, starting with her apprenticeship in 1997. She is licensed with the County of San Francisco in California. Roger Rodriguez Piercing Specialist Roger Rodriguez, also known as Roger Rabb!t, is the Owner of Ancient Adornments Body Piercing, a piercing studio based in the Los Angeles, California area. With over 25 years of piercing experience, Roger has become the co-owner of several piercing studios such as ENVY Body Piercing and Rebel Rebel Ear Piercing and teaches the craft of body piercing at Ancient Adornments. He is a member of the Association of Professional Piercers (APP). Alice Wu Image Consultant Alice Wu is an Image Consultant and Personal Stylist based in San Francisco, California. She is the Owner of Styled by Alice, an image consulting service offering private styling services for men and women. Focused on personalizing the styling experience, Alice provides closet edits, personal shopping, wardrobe planning, and other services such as event styling. Alterations Express Alteration, Tailoring, and Dry Cleaning Specialists Alterations Express is a salon-style alteration and tailoring house with walk-in service, spacious dressing rooms, fitting specialists, and an extraordinary team of tailors and seamstresses at 13 storefront locations. With over 70 years of experience, they specialize in guiding individuals through a professional fitting, evaluating an alteration project on the spot, express alterations, and immediately providing pricing for any alteration. Alterations Express has been featured on multiple websites such as TheKnot.com. Jamie Bushman Master Hair Stylist Jamie Bushman is a Master Hair Stylist and the Owner of The Circle Salon, an eco-friendly salon in Chicago, Illinois. With over 22 years of experience, she specializes in cutting hair, styling hair, coloring hair, hair care, waxing, and makeup. Jamie has been featured in multiple publications such as Allure and Elle, and her salon has been recognized as one of Salon Today’s Top 200 Salons. Jamie received her cosmetology training at The Aveda Institute Minneapolis. Mindy Nguyen Holistic Cosmetologist Mindy Nguyen is a Holistic Cosmetologist and the Owner and Founder of Mai Blossom Organic Salon, an organic hair salon in San Diego, California. With more than 35 years of experience in the beauty industry, she specializes in combining Eastern philosophies with Western science to provide organic hair coloring and holistic hair styling. Martha Ellen Mabry Hairstylist & Salon Owner Martha Ellen Mabry is a Hairstylist and the founder of Headchop Hair Studio in Brooklyn, New York. Martha Ellen founded Headchop in 2011 and has been providing high-quality hair styling services in New York ever since. In 2023, Martha Ellen expanded her business to include Lil’ Chop, an express version of Headchop focused on quick and easy in-and-out hair styling. In addition to running two businesses, Martha Ellen's specialties include dry cutting, natural curl and texture, extensions, brow microblading, lamination, freckle tattooing, as well as wedding and event styling. Martha Ellen works exclusively with Great Lengths extensions specializing in changes for length, density, and chemical-free color. Marlon Rivas Facial Hair Specialist Marlon Rivas is a Barber and Owner of MGX Professional Men's Grooming, a barbershop based in the San Francisco Bay Area. He is also the founder of Busystyle.com, a service that provides online scheduling services to businesses in the barbering and beauty industry. Marlon has over 15 years of experience in managing and providing barber services. Korri Burton-Universe Professional Tailor Korri Burton-Universe is a Professional Tailor and the Owner of Uncommon Closet, a custom clothing and tailor resource for the LGBTQIA+ community and those with body types often overlooked by major clothing chains and shops. Korri specializes in custom clothing, tailoring services, and wedding clothes for people of all identities, genders, races, and sizes. Uncommon Closet creates a safe space for people to find or make outfits that make them feel safe and powerful. Cordelia Frost Makeup Artist & Gothic Blogger Cordelia Frost is a Makeup Artist and Gothic Blogger. With over a decade of experience, Cordelia specializes in cruelty-free and vegan beauty, hooded eye makeup and tutorials, gothic fashion, and skincare. She wrote and published “Hooded Eyes Makeup Manual” available on Amazon. Cordelia is the creator of Phyrra.net and PhyrraNyx, where she shares beauty and fashion tips and tricks. Lana Blanc Personal & Fashion Stylist Lana Blanc is a Personal and Fashion Stylist and the Founder of The Blanc House, a full-service styling company based in New York, New York. With over ten years of experience in fashion and retail, she specializes in helping others look and feel their best through activities such as editing closets and personal shopping. She has also been featured in multiple publications, including InStyle and Elle. Lana holds a BBA in International Marketing from Pace University and an MBA in Entrepreneurship and Fashion Management from LIM College. Sahra Brandt Personal Stylist Sahra Brandt is a Personal Stylist and the Founder of Shop the City, a company dedicated to helping others attain their style goals. With over ten years of fashion industry experience, Sahra specializes in wardrobe audits, personal shopping, and remote styling. She also runs Que Sera Sahra, a lifestyle blog. Sahra holds a BBA in Fashion Merchandising and Visual Merchandising from LIM College. Ambia Elms Master Hairstylist Ambia Elms is a Master Hairstylist and Owner of olive + elm Hair Salon in Gilbert. Arizona. With 27 years of industry experience, she specializes in short to medium-textured haircuts and gender-affirming hair services. Ambia and her team pride themselves on their sustainability initiatives and their status as a Certified Sustainable Salon by Green Circle Salons. María Fernández González Tattoo Artist María Fernández González is a Tattoo Artist based in Hamburg, Germany. She works out of her tattoo studio, Alchemist’s Valley, which has locations in both Hamburg and Madrid. She specializes in fineline tattoos with soft shadings. While she mainly works with black ink, she sometimes includes touches of color in her work as well. Her original tattoo designs often reference her love of nature and are defined by graphic and clean elements. María creates unique tattoo compositions that leave an indelible mark on her clients. As an early adopter of the concept of modern tattooing, which features designs with fine lines and unique illustrations, María has become a highly sought-after tattoo artist and is considered a true visionary in the field of modern tattooing. She graduated with a Master's in Fine Arts from the School of Art in Hamburg, and with a Degree in Fine Arts from Complutense University of Madrid, Spain. Chance Dubinick Sneaker Authentication Expert & Digital Creator Chance Dubinick is a digital creator and sneaker authentication expert based in Kansas City, Missouri. Chance got his start reselling sneakers and has since combined his passions for collecting sneakers and content creation to build a huge online business and community through social media. With over 1 million combined followers across YouTube and TikTok and over 29 million likes on TikTok, he strives to create content that his fan base enjoys and to spread joy. He shares content on sneaker collecting, care, and authentication, along with a variety of other fashion and pop culture topics. Chance has worked with a variety of large brands, including Footlocker, Nike, NBC, Amazon Prime Video, Jordan Brand, Lids, Puma, and more. Nikita Chen Fashion Authentication Expert Nikita Chen is the founder and CEO of LegitGrails, a leading authentication platform for luxury goods, trusted by thousands of resale businesses worldwide. He is a fashion authentication expert based in London, England. Under his leadership, LegitGrails has been featured in major media outlets including Forbes, The Japan Times, and Business Insider for its role in shaping trust in the secondhand luxury ecosystem. Nikita has spoken at international conferences such as Pawn Expo and NARTS in the United States, where he shared insights on authentication, resale analytics, and the future of circular fashion. Founding LegitGrails in 2019, Nikita has since established it as a leading authority in the authentication industry, helping over 100,000 individual and business customers and performing authentication for over 1.5 million items. LegitGrails’ partnerships include digital marketplaces, resale stores, e-commerce retailers, and consignment stores. Nikita graduated with a Bachelor of Business Administration from the ESCP Business School. Kana Ishii Licensed Cosmetologist Kana Ishii is a Licensed Cosmetologist in the US and Japan, currently based in Beverly Hills. With more than 18 years of experience, she specializes in hair styling and coloring services such as balayage. Her work has been featured in Elle Girl Magazine, Cosmopolitan Magazine, and Modern Salon Magazine. She has also worked at major events, including The Academy Awards. Kana has won several hair competitions at some of the biggest beauty expos in the world such as the International Salon and Spa Expo and the Premier Orlando International Beauty Event. David Reeves Bespoke Tailor David Reeves is a Bespoke Tailor and the Founder of Reeves: Modern English Tailoring, based in New York City. David has been in the bespoke tailoring business for over 25 years and specializes in designing and creating custom, high-end suits. David has worked with influential names in the United Kingdom and the United States such as Richard James of Savile Row, Prada, Commes Des Garcons, and Timothy Everest. Mason Hainey Perfumer Mason Hainey is the founder and perfumer of MIZU, an all-natural perfumery based out of Rhode Island. Since 2012, MIZU has been handcrafting natural fragrances inspired by a love of nature, ancient wisdom, and modern design. Mason sources premium, natural ingredients and implements sustainable practices in his work, creating luxury products that honor craftsmanship. The company is one of few perfume brands that uses 100% natural, plant-based ingredients. Upon launching his business, Mason launched his debut fragrance, Palo Santo, known for its calming and purifying properties. Since then, he has released dozens of new fragrances and collaborations, all created to provide his customers rituals of joy that create harmony. Yan Kandkhorov Hair Stylist Yan Kandkhorov is a Hair Stylist and Owner of K&S Salon, a hair salon based in New York City's Meatpacking District. Yan has over 20 years of experience in the hair industry, is best known for paving the way for iconic hair trends in the industry, and has operated his salon since 2017. His hair salon has been voted one of the Best Hair Salons in New York City in 2019 by Expertise. Yan and K&S Salon has collaborated with leading fashion magazines and celebrities such as Marie Clair USA, Lucy Magazine, and Resident Magazine. Aparna Ghosh California Licensed Esthetician & Electrologist Aparna Ghosh is a Licensed Esthetician & Electrologist and the Owner of Synergy Skincare in Folsom, California. She has been running Synergy Skincare since 2017 and has over eight years of industry experience working with various skin types. Aparna specializes in corrective and preventative skincare. She is a Kaiser Permanente Network Provider providing electrolysis hair removal for transgender patients diagnosed with adult gender dysphoria and gender incongruence. In addition to being certified in skin health and herbology, she holds a Master's degree in Zoology with a specialization in Biochemistry and a Bachelor’s degree in Zoology with a minor in Chemistry. Synergy Skincare won the Hall of Fame Best in Folsom Award in 2019 and 2022 and the Yelp Recognition Badge in 2017 and 2020. Bethany Brenneman Color Analysis Expert & Professional Makeup Artist Bethany Brenneman is a color analysis expert and professional makeup artist based in Columbus, IN. She is a Master Certified Color Analysis Expert serving the midwest, and has the #1 color analysis business in Southern Indiana. She has over a decade of experience and consulted with over 1000 clients virtually and in person. As a professional makeup artist, she has spent over a decade working with brides, fashion shows, and major tv networks such as MTV. She now serves as a bridal and special event makeup artist. She also offers in-person and virtual color analysis to help you get matched to both makeup and clothing in your season. Bethany has built a social media presence on both YouTube and Instagram where she shares simple makeup and style tips, tutorials, and recommendations. She also hosts in-person group makeup classes while running a virtual makeup artist business with Seint Beauty offering color-matching and customizable palettes. Alison Deyette Professional Stylist Alison Deyette is a Style Expert and TV Host with over 20 years of experience in fashion, style, and television. She has styled and directed photoshoots around the world for a variety of magazines, including Good Housekeeping, People StyleWatch, and Mode. Alison was also named one of the top stylists in Los Angeles by Variety magazine. Shelley Golden Personal Branding Image Consultant & Personal Stylist Shelley Golden is the founder of Shelley Golden Style based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 20 years of fashion and visual arts experience, Shelley has worked for The International Academy of Merchandise and Design in Chicago, the Wellesley Historical Society, and at Bloom formerly: Image For Success. Shelley is a certified Color Consultant from The Image and Color Institute International and a Color Specialist Member of Color Designers International (CDI). Shelley holds a BS in Textile and Business from Arizona State University and was rated a Top Pro of 2018 by Thumbtack. Rachel Michael Personal Stylist Rachel Michael is a Personal Stylist based in Minneapolis, Minnesota and the Owner of Rachel Michael Styling. With more than six years of experience, she specializes in helping others understand and develop their unique style through wardrobe editing, personal shopping, and styling. Rachel holds a BA from Arizona State University and an Image Consultant Certification from Statement Makers. She has also worked with brands like Stitch Fix to help hundreds of women have a style they love. Taissha G. LaReau Wardrobe Consultant & Stylist ​​Taissha G. LaReau is a Wardrobe Consultant & Stylist based in Albany, NY. With more than three years of experience, Tai specializes in helping people maximize their wardrobes by creating functional, everyday outfits that are tailored to their lifestyle and make them feel polished. While she offers virtual and in-person closet editing, personal shopping, and outfit creation, she also has a knack for helping people shop strategically, discover new brands, and experiment with new styles. Taissha holds a BS in Marketing from The State University of New York College at Oswego. Tiffany Pate Licensed Cosmetologist Tiffany Pate is a Licensed Cosmetologist and the Owner and CEO of Pretty Professional Hair based in Tampa, Florida. With more than 17 years of experience, she specializes in wig, weave, and hair extension installation. Additionally, she provides care that maintains healthy hair. Mark LoBiondo Licensed Cosmetologist Mark LoBiondo is a Licensed Cosmetologist and the Owner of Markdaniel Barbershop. With more than nine years of experience, Mark specializes in providing barber services reminiscent of classic neighborhood barbershop experiences. Markdaniel Barbershop has been featured in Jersey's Best. Mark and his team all hold Barber or Cosmetology Licenses in New Jersey. Kate Breen Personal Stylist Kate Breen is a Personal Stylist based in Washington D.C. She is the founder and owner of GetDressedGo, a Personal Styling and Image Consulting firm. Kate’s mission is to help people use clothing and style as tools to thrive personally and professionally. Clients of GetDressedGo receive a variety of services, including vision boards, closet audits, personal shopping, home boutique experiences, and seasonal refreshes. She has over 20 years of experience in the styling and fashion world, and she was an adjunct professor in Costume Design & Production at The George Washington University. Kate received a BA in English Literature from Johns Hopkins University and earned a MFA in Costume Design from The George Washington University. Casey Welsch Cosplay Artist and Costume Designer Casey Welsch is an award-winning Cosplay Artist. Casey’s expertise is in couture garment construction and cosplay, with experience in corsetry, petticoat and ball gown making, cosplay competitions, embroidery, and more. With over 10 years of experience, she has grown her skills in prop making, wig styling, and sewing. Her most recent accomplishment was taking the Grand Prize at Twitchcon in October of 2018. Casey also wrote a book on Cosplay Foundation Garments and teaches classes on tambour embroidery, beadwork, smocking, and more. JK DeLapp Perfumer and Fragrance Expert JK DeLapp is a Perfumer and Fragrance expert based in Atlanta, Georgia. He is a licensed practitioner of Chinese Medicine and is a formally trained Medical Herbalist. He is the owner of fragrance business Rising Phoenix Perfumery, which he founded in 2011. Rising Phoenix specializes in artisan Sandalwood, Oud (Agarwood), and Resin distillations. JK compounds all of his Attars with his pharmacy compounding and herbal education in mind. He balances multiple priorities while formulating his fragrances, including enjoyable scent, longevity, complexity, and positive impact on psycho-emotional wellbeing. His background in the culinary arts and Chinese herbal medicine, and artistic vein lie at the foundation of his creations. JK also works as a licensed healthcare practitioner, and has held a private practice since 2014. He is nationally accredited by the NCCAOM and is licensed by Georgia’s Medical Composite Board. During his studies in Shanghai, he completed rotations at 3 different hospitals, and also studied the Chinese local herbal compounding tradition known as Gao Fang. He received a medical degree from Pacific College of Health and Science in San Diego. Laura Martin Licensed Cosmetologist Laura Martin is a Licensed Cosmetologist based in Milledgeville, Georgia. She has been working as a hair stylist since 2007, and began a career as a cosmetology teacher in 2013. She worked as a teacher at Arrojo Cosmetology School, teaching cosmetology practices, hairstyling, and hair color application. She also brought her cosmetology expertise to her work as a staff writer for fashion blog Style Noted, writing pieces related to hair and fashion. She received an MFA in Creative Writing from Georgia College & State University, where she was also an English Teaching Fellow. Additionally, she received a BA in Creative Writing and Literature from New York University. Ramin Ahmari Social Media Expert Ramin Ahmari is the CEO & Co-Founder of FINESSE, an AI-led fashion house using machine learning on social media to forecast trends & eliminate fashion's problem of overproduction.  Before his time at FINESSE, he worked with influencers on growth and sponsorships and has worked with major brands on implementing influencer & marketing strategy by leveraging his expertise in data science & artificial intelligence on social data. Will Fuller Certified Massage Therapist Will Fuller is a Certified Massage Therapist and Wellness Educator working in San Francisco, California. Will has worked with the Sports and Recreation Center at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), taught sports in England, Kenya, and Kuwait, and is now affiliated with the Chiro-Medical Group. He was trained in physical rehabilitation under a program founded by Dr. Meir Schneider. He has a Bachelors in Sport Science and a Post-Graduate Certificate of Education in Physical Education from Southampton University. Kara Allan Celebrity Stylist, Makeup Artist & Personal Brand Consultant Kara Allan is a Celebrity Stylist, Makeup Artist, Personal Brand Consultant, and Owner of Style by Kara Allan. With over 19 years of experience, her expertise includes wardrobe styling and edits, personal shopping, personal branding, makeup application, and corporate image consulting. Kara has worked with many celebrity clients including Leonardo di Caprio and Jesse Itzler. She has also been featured in numerous media outlets such as DC  Magazine, Washington Post Express, and the Huffington Post. Kara received her training with Stacy London, Former Fashion Editor at Vogue Magazine and Star of TLC's What Not to Wear, and Carla Mathis, Certified Image Master, Association of Image Consultants International. Dedra Allen Cosmetologist Dedra Allen is a Cosmetologist and the CEO of Jdoah Beauty Salon in Thomasville, North Carolina. She has over 12 years of experience and specializes in working on short hair, relaxed hair, hair removal, and hair growth. She graduated with a Cosmetology degree from the Cutting Edge Institute. Moira Khan Grief Coach and Educator Moira Khan is a loss and resilience specialist and grief educator based in Madrid, Spain. Moira founded GriefSpan in 2024, specializing in grief, loss, growth and resilience and has helped grieving individuals all over the world. She has been featured in the HuffPost, Get Griefy Magazine, and on several podcasts including Grief + Light, Heroes in Grief, Growing Up Grieving, life with grief, and more. Moira has a Grief Education Certificate from Grief.com and believes that grief education and coaching enables grievers to process their grief in a safe space while learning the best practices and tools to navigate their grief journey. Elexis Mendez Massage Therapist Elexis Mendez is a licensed massage therapist based in Portland, Oregon. With over 5 years of experience, Elexis is the lead massage therapist at Zama Massage Therapeutic Spa. She specializes in a variety of techniques, including Thai massage, Ashiatsu, deep tissue, Swedish, trigger point therapy, gua sha, and cupping. Elexis completed an 800-hour massage therapy program and received her massage therapy license from East-West College of the Healing Arts in Portland. In 2024, she also became a licensed esthetician. Kate Heussler Branding, Etiquette, and Image Consultant Kate Heussler is a branding, etiquette, and image consultant based in Sydney, Australia. With over 20 years of experience across the fashion, corporate, beauty, wellness, and military sectors, Kate is the founder of The Institute of Modelling and brings expertise in marketing, digital design, social media strategy, and modern manners. She combines her background in fashion and communications with her ongoing work mentoring teenagers in the Australian Air Force Cadets, promoting confidence, professionalism, and modern etiquette. Kate holds a Bachelor of Visual Arts and Advanced Diplomas in Business, Leadership & Management, and Entrepreneurship. She is a Master Certified Image Consultant with the International Accreditors for Continuing Education and Training (IACET) and the Association of Image Consultants International (AICI), holding advanced credentials in Colour Analysis and professional presence. Her insights on branding, etiquette, and the modelling industry have been featured in News.com.au, ABC, The New York Post, The Sydney Morning Herald, The Daily Telegraph, Daily Mail UK, Mamamia, and Body+Soul. Lauren Schugar Professional Stylist Lauren Schugar is a professional fashion and wardrobe stylist. She has worked in the fashion industry for 20 years, and currently specializes in production wardrobes for print and video shoots. Nini Efia Yang Makeup Artist Nini Efia Yang is a Makeup Artist based in San Francisco, California. She is the Owner of Nini's Epiphany, a makeup and hair studio. Nini’s Epiphany offers makeup and hair styling services for clients, and also perform permanent brow and lash procedures. They also perform special event styling services, including features like custom lashes, bridal hairstyles, airbrush makeup, bridal makeup trials, and makeup and hair changes for receptions. The company is also known for their classes, where they teach customers in personal or group settings how to improve their makeup and hair abilities. Nini has over 10 years of experience in the industry, and specializes in bridal makeup. Her work has been featured in Ceremony Magazine, They So Loved, and Wedding Window. Mark Sandler Graduate Gemologist, Jeweler, & Appraiser Mark Sandler is a Graduate of the Gemological Institute of America, and a Jeweler with over 30 years of experience. His family business, Designer Jewels, has been designing handmade jewelry for five generations. Mark is a member of the American Society of Appraisers and the American Gem Society. Carla Nelson Personal Stylist Carla Nelson is a Personal Stylist and the Founder of A Creative Cliché. With more than seven years of experience, she specializes in empowering entrepreneurs and executives through personal styling and shopping, image consulting, and wardrobe edits. She has worked with many brands, including Woman’s World Magazine and L.L. Bean. Carla holds a Bachelor’s degree from Simmons University. Angela Justice Master Hair Stylist Angela Justice is a Master Hair Stylist and the Owner of Payton Place Salon based in North Little Rock, Arkansas. With over 33 years of experience, she specializes in styling and cutting hair, coloring hair, providing hair repair and strengthening services, and installing tape-in hair extensions. Kemi Hill Hair Stylist Kemi Hill is a Hair Stylist and the Owner of Reveal Hair AZ in Tempe, Arizona. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in silk press, helping women transition out of relaxers, traditional installs, clip-in enhancements, natural-looking color, and curl sessions. Kemi prioritizes providing simple and useful information to women who struggle with their hair care. Pila Xian Esthetician and Massage Therapist Pila Xian is an Esthetician and Massage Therapist based in Aspen, Colorado. Pila owns and operates Heaven on Earth, a day spa that offers personalized facial and massage therapies, as well as a variety of spa services. She draws on traditions from Hawaii, Thailand, Japan, and Western massage to tailor her massages for each client. Pila has a BBA from Marymount University, a Certificate of Massage from Boulder College of Massage Therapy, and has studied in the art of Lomilomi and Ashiatsu, among other modalities. Heaven on Earth has been featured in Vogue, Glossy, Aspen Sojourner, and more. Friso Stokman Cosplayer Friso Stokman is a Cosplayer based in North Texas. Known as @frisocosplay on his social media channels, he has over 115k followers on TikTok, 16k followers on Instagram and frequently appears in Marvel cosplay. He boasts a large collection of Marvel props and collectibles and was featured on screenrant.com as one of the 10 Best MCU Cosplayers on TikTok. He is an administrator for DFW Avengers, a Texas-based group of costumers and cosplayers who donate their time to local charities. Shipra Taneja Makeup Artist Shipra Taneja is a Makeup Artist and the Founder of Taneja's Bride, a lifestyle, beauty, and fashion blog. She specializes in creating bold, colorful makeup looks. Shipra is passionate about making colorful makeup comfortable for everybody. Candice Ayers Hairstylist Candice Ayers is a Hairstylist and the manager of Bespoke Hair Studio in San Diego, California. Candice has been manager at Bespoke Hair for six years, working both behind the chair and behind the scenes. In addition to managing the business side of Bespoke Hair, Candice's specialty is creating lived-in blended looks that enhance each client's unique head of hair. Naomi Elza Esthetician Naomi Elza is an Esthetician based in Beverly Hills, California. Naomi operates Beauty Factory Beverly Hills, a spa that offers a variety of facials and other skin treatments. She has been an esthetician for over 10 years and helps clients with issues including acne, hyperpigmentation, and dehydrated skin. She enjoys helping individuals find skincare solutions tailored to their needs. She attended Lu Roth Academy to become an Esthetician. Grace Thomas Personal Stylist Grace Thomas is a Personal Stylist and the Founder and Lead Stylist of Builtgracefully, a platform that empowers individuals to enhance their style. With over 15 years of experience in the retail and fashion industry, Grace has worked for numerous brands including Nike, Nordstrom, and Anthropologie. She has styled professional athletes, Fortune 500 CEOs, and anyone who wants to feel empowered by their clothes. She has been featured in several publications including Brides, Reader's Digest, Bustle, and PopSugar. Grace received her Bachelor's degree from Portland State University in Business, Management, Marketing, and Related Support Services. Jessica Lu Injection Trainer & Medical Aesthetics Protocol Developer Jessica Lu is a medical doctor (MD, PhD) with over 28 years of experience in medical aesthetics, clinical training, and academic research. She currently serves as the Chief Clinical Officer and Lead Trainer at Beverly Hills Plastic Surgeons, where she oversees physician education in advanced injection techniques and non-invasive technologies. Dr. Lu earned her MD and PhD in Medical Sciences from the Chinese University of Hong Kong. She has successfully completed all three steps of the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) and brings a research-driven, safety-focused approach to aesthetic medicine. While she is still in the residency in U.S, her clinical expertise and contributions to non-surgical facial rejuvenation are widely recognized. Dr. Lu is also experienced in advanced use of technologies such as Thermage FLX and Ultherapy, providing effective skin tightening solutions for patients across the U.S., Europe, and Asia—including public figures and celebrities. Priscilla Torres Piercing Expert Priscilla Torres is a body piercing expert based in McAllen, Texas. Priscilla has been working as a professional body piercer since 2009, and is the owner of The Piercing Bar, the only all-piercing studio in McAllen. She specializes in both baby and child ear piercing, adult body piercing, and ear styling & design. After a few years of teaching high school biology and anatomy while working part-time as a piercer, Priscilla decided to leave teaching to become a full-time body piercer. Before opening The Piercing Bar, she worked as a piercer at two different tattoo studios. She has a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in Biology from the University of Texas-Pan American. Kyle Kenny Master Trainer & Certified Personal Trainer Kyle Kenny is a Master Trainer, Certified Personal Trainer, and the Owner of KennyTRY Training. With more than seven years of experience, he specializes in helping people achieve their fitness goals by creating individualized meal programs, training regimens, supplementation systems, vitamin lists, and workouts. Kyle has multiple Personal Training Certifications and a Fitness Nutrition Specialist Certification through the National Academy of Sports Medicine. Hannah Metz Professional Makeup & Hair Artist Hannah Metz is a Professional Makeup & Hair Artist. She is the Owner & CEO of Anomalie Beauty Agency. The agency features a team of Makeup & Hair Artists, offering luxury, on-location services with a diverse focus in many areas of expertise, such as Bridal, Brand Campaigns & E-commerce, Lifestyle, Events, Corporate Events, Headshots & Conferences, Print, Media & Television, and more. Anomalie’s team represents artists & stylists in Chicago, Nashville, and Charlotte, with plans to expand across the US, and offers mobile services both nationwide and internationally. Before founding Anomalie, Hannah was the CEO of Hannah Elisabeth Beauty. With over ten years of experience, she specializes in providing luxury makeup artistry and hair styling. Hannah and her team have completed beauty work for brand campaigns, celebrity red carpet events, and social media influencers. Hannah believes in the power of hair and makeup to help women’s inner beauty shine through. Laura Menendez Makeup Artist & Licensed Esthetician Laura Menendez is a Makeup Artist & Licensed Esthetician and the Owner of Laura London Makeup. With over seven years of experience in the makeup industry, she specializes in makeup for special events and photoshoots. Laura’s work has been featured in many national publications such as FHM. She is certified in Color Theory, Photography Makeup, and Mature Skin. Ira Lysa Fashion Designer Ira Lysa is a Fashion Designer based in Hoboken, New Jersey. With over 15 years of industry experience, Ira is the founder of Imperial Alterations, a tailoring business. She also started the fashion brand iralysa.com and Ira’s Bridal Studio, a boutique that specializes in bridal wear. She specializes in alterations for suits, dresses, outerwear, and luxury brands. Maudy Paden Sewing & Tailoring Expert Maudy Paden is a Sewing & Alterations Specialist based in Sarasota, Florida. She provides a tailoring concierge service, where she offers in home/office fittings and pick up/delivery for alterations. She has over 30 years of sewing experience. Before starting her business in Florida, she ran her clothing alteration shop for 14 years in Vermilion, Ohio. Maudy has a wide tailoring repertoire; wedding dressings, formalwear, suiting, professional clothing, off-the-rack, ready-to-wear, clothing repairs, and patches all fit her skill set.  In all her work, she follows the high-quality standard outlined by the Association of Sewing and Design Professionals. She received an MA in Lay Ministry at Trinity Lutheran Seminary and a BA in Religious Studies from Wittenberg University. Daley Polner Clothing Reseller and Content Creator Daley Polner is a clothing reseller and content creator based in Memphis, TN. She is the founder of Love Loop Vintage, where she has curated and resold Y2K and vintage fashion online since 2018. She also has over 5 years of experience in digital marketing and community management. Daley is passionate about thrifting, secondhand shopping, and sustainable fashion. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Environmental Studies from UC Santa Barbara. Trent Potter Shoe Care & Repair Specialist Trent Potter is a Shoe Care and Repair Specialist and the Founder and Co-Owner of Southern Polished​ and Potter & Sons, a sandal-making business and shoe repair business. With over nine years of experience, he specializes in hand-crafted sandals, shoe cleaning and polishing, and sole and heel repair. Trent holds a BA in Political Science from The University of Tennessee-Knoxville. Trent’s work with Southern Polished has been featured in Nashville Lifestyles, Okra Magazine: Real Southern Culture, Today in Nashville, and Good Grit Magazine. ​Trent also has a YouTube channel alongside his brother, Heath, called Trenton & Heath, which has over 250K subscribers. Michelle Bebbington Professional Hair Stylist ​​Michelle Bebbington is a Professional Hair Stylist and the Owner of The Living Room Hair and Skin based in Great Falls, Montana. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in hair education, coloring, and styling. Spencer Shimada Image Consultant Spencer Shimada is an Image Consultant and the Founder of White Shoe Consulting based in the Denver metro area. He specializes in helping others build confidence through wardrobe consulting and personal styling. Spencer has a Bachelor’s degree in Marketing from Weber State University and an MBA from The University of Birmingham. Essie Karimi Professional Tailor Essie Karimi is a Professional Tailor and the Owner of Sew Fit Tailoring & Alterations, a sewing shop that has been operating for over 40 years. Essie specializes in tailoring, alterations, sewing, repairs, and redesign. Essie works on a variety of clothing types, including wedding dresses, formal wear, casual wear, sportswear, swimwear, and uniforms. Patrick Klima Vintage Clothing Expert Patrick Klima is the Founder and CEO of WyCo Vintage based in Kansas City, Missouri. With over 18 years in business, WyCo Vintage is one of the world’s largest online sellers of authentic vintage concert and pop-culture t-shirts. Their collection consists of over 3,000 unique, high-quality vintage pieces spanning the 60’s-90’s, and also offers streetwear and sneakers. WyCo Vintage has been featured in Men’s Health, Esquire, and the Kansas City Pitch as one of the best places to buy vintage t-shirts. Julia Dobkine Color Analysis Expert, Certified Image Consultant, and Style Coach Julia Dobkine is a worldwide expert in color analysis and the Founder of Agile Styling. She is a certified image consultant, color expert, and style coach who believes that appearance plays a significant role in how people feel about themselves and present themselves to the world. She has helped thousands of men and women embrace their uniqueness through color, style, and fashion. Her goal is to bring out her clients’ most confident and best-looking selves by teaching them their best colors and how to style them. Through Agile Styling, she offers in-person and virtual consultations, online color analysis, digital styling guides, and chat subscription services. Her digital guides provide expert insights on capsule wardrobes, fashion trends, and styling one’s personal color palette. Agile Styling helps clients uncover the power of color and elevate their look with ease. Choosing Agile Styling means choosing more than just a product or service—it means choosing confidence, style, and self-expression. At Agile Styling, clients receive more than a color palette; they gain the knowledge and tools - a clear roadmap - to seamlessly incorporate their best colors into their wardrobe, making every day stylish, confident, and effortless. Natalie Rose Pokes Professional Piercer Natalie Rose Pokes is a professional piercer based in Feasterville-Trevose, PA. Previously working as a nurse for over 10 years, Natalie then trained for 4 years as a piercing apprentice. She was able to transition to a full-time piercer in 2021, and later opened up her own shop alongside her partner in 2022. They co-own Gunns and Roses Tattoo and Piercing Parlor, offering tattoos for the working class, by the working class. Natalie is particularly passionate about offering high-quality jewelry suitable for people with sensitive skin. Siena Filippi Thrifting and Sustainable Style Creator Siena Filippi is a thrifting and sustainable style creator based in New York City, NY. Siena creates content on social media around thrifting, thrift flips & DIY, sustainable fashion, and vintage clothing for an audience of over 680k followers. She is also the owner of ViaSiena, a vintage clothing store located in Dumbo, NY and available to shop online. Most recently, she has grown her audience and customer base and created an in-person vintage market series called Day-to-Night Vintage Markets that combine class vintage market shopping with socal nightlife activities. Austin Wayne Aesthetics and Looksmaxxing Authority Austin Wayne is an aesthetics and looksmaxxing authority. With 9 years of experience in fitness, aesthetics, and self-improvement, Austin is an ACE-certified personal trainer and professional male model. He combines industry knowledge with hands-on practice to help others achieve their best physique and lifestyle. In addition to his modeling career, he has built a strong online presence, creating content that shares insights on health, performance, and style with a global audience. In 2024, he officially launched his own looksmaxxing school, teaching people how to become more attractive, which has become one of the fastest-growing schools with over 500 students. Bia Rehman Licensed Esthetician & Makeup Artist Bia Rehman is a Licensed Esthetician and Makeup Artist based in Austin, Texas. With more than 11 years of experience, she specializes in bridal, special event, and editorial makeup that highlights natural beauty. Bia attended cosmetology school in Houston, TX, and received a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from The University of Houston. Shona Williams Hair Stylist Shona Williams is a Hair Stylist and Owner of Divine Design Hair Studio in Lemon Grove, California. Shona has over 18 years of hair styling experience and has been a salon owner for 10 years. She offers hair washing, hair styling, hair extensions, hair relaxing, and braiding services, specializing in cutting and styling clients' natural hair. Jae Mee Kim Alterations Expert & Seamstress Jae Mee Kim an Alterations Expert & Seamstress based in Baltimore, Maryland. Jae Mee Nuth  Kim took over her mother's business and has been running Kim's Custom Tailor since 2015. She specializes in major and minor alterations, bridal and formal wear alterations, customization of garments, and leather repairs. Alain Ferro Fragrance Expert Alain Ferro is a Fragrance Expert based in Grasse, France. He is the director of the Grasse Institute of Perfumery, a prestigious school in Grasse, the world’s perfume capital. The institute was founded in 2002 by PRODAROM, the French Trade Union of Fragrance Manufacturers. Alain has been the director of the institute since its founding. The institute was born from the desire to transmit the living heritage of perfumery by sharing it with passionate people. In their program, they attach great importance to lab practice, and each lecturer is an experienced perfumer or technician hailing from a prestigious company, including Givaudan, IFF, Mane, Robertet, and Charabot. They possess a collection of more than 800 natural and synthetic raw materials and around 300 perfumes. The institute has trained 1100 students of 70 different nationalities in the last 15 years. Grasse was officially awarded “World Heritage Status” in 2018, joining UNESCO’s Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Grasse’s unique perfumery includes the cultivation of perfume plants, the knowledge and processing of natural raw materials, and the art of perfume composition. Alain received a master’s degree in Industrial Data Processing from Université Côte d'Azur, and a bachelor’s degree in Biological Engineering from Aix-Marseille University. Stephanie Navarro Professional Makeup Artist Stephanie Navarro is a professional makeup artist and hair stylist based in Los Angeles, California. Represented by The Rex Agency, Stephanie's recent work includes grooming for John Legend and makeup and hair for Selma Blair. Her clients include Dermalogica, Virgin Airlines, and Wrangler Jeans. With over 15 years of makeup and styling experience, she holds a cosmetology license from the Marrinello School of Beauty and a makeup certificate from Elegance International. Maja Koziara Color Analysis Expert Maja Koziara is a color analyst and the owner of ByMaja Color Analysis Services based in Houston, Texas. With almost 10 years of experience, Maja works with individual clients and hosts group and corporate events. She is passionate about helping her clients find their best colors and their confidence! She has a fashion degree from the Artistic Alternative School of Makeup and Styling in Krakow, Poland, along with a BA and MA in International Relations and Affairs from the Krakow University of Economics. Matt Underhill Sneaker Authentication Expert and Content Creator Matt Underhill is a sneaker authentication expert and content creator. Matt creates education content on his social media channels @realorfakeofficial, where he has over 317k followers. He shares tips and tricks for authenticating products like sneakers and football boots. He is passionate about helping people online identify if their product is real or fake, and helping prevent scams and fraud through education about authentication. Zayauna Liddell Nail Artist Zayauna Liddell is a licensed nail technician, educator, and beauty entrepreneur. She is best known as the founder of Nails By Zay, a thriving nail brand based in Pittsburgh, PA. With over seven years of hands-on experience, Zayauna began her journey in high school, turning a passion for nail artistry into a full-fledged business. In 2021, she opened her own salon, establishing a go-to destination for trendsetting nail designs and professional services. Beyond the salon, Zayauna is the creator of a growing nail product line that caters to both everyday consumers and professional nail techs. Her innovative style, attention to detail, and commitment to quality have earned her a loyal following of over 140,000 supporters across social media platforms, where she shares tutorials, nail trends, and behind-the-scenes glimpses into her business and creative process. Asif Pirani, MD Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Dr. Asif Pirani is a cosmetic plastic surgeon and founder of the Toronto Plastic Surgery Center based in Toronto, Canada. Dr. Pirani is board certified by the Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada and is dedicated to enhancing the beauty and confidence of his patients while upholding the highest standards of safety, comfort, and discretion. Dr. Pirani has served as an expert reviewer for The Aesthetic Plastic Surgery Journal. He has also taught plastic surgery trainees in multiple universities, most recently the University of Toronto and New York University. Dr. Pirani completed undergraduate and medical training at the University of Toronto. He went on to complete plastic and cosmetic surgery training at the University of British Columbia and served as the Chief Plastic Surgery Resident there. Dr. Pirani completed a fellowship at the Institute of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery at NYU and the University of Toronto Aesthetic Surgery Fellowship. Real Authentication Fashion Authentication Experts Real Authentication is an app offering authentication services for a variety of luxury designer goods, including handbags, shoes, clothing, jewelry, watches, and accessories. Founded in 2016, it is now the world’s leading process to verify the authenticity of new and used luxury goods, servicing clients in more than 95% of the world. Real Authentication has highly skilled authentication experts and utilizes proprietary Intelascan™ technology to conduct authentication through images provided by their clients. Real Authentication has been featured in publications like Business Insider, Vogue, Fashion United, Tech Times, and more. Tyler Chanel Sustainable Fashion & Thrifting Expert Tyler Chanel is a sustainable fashion expert based in Las Vegas, Nevada. With over 13 years of experience, Tyler is a former fast fashion model who now creates content around thrifting, sustainability, and living an intentional lifestyle. She shares educational tips and conversations that encourage more conscious, ethical shopping on her blog, tylerchanel.com, and social media to over 25k followers. She also writes about approachable strategies, easy swaps, and eco-friendly products, and has built an ethical brand directory for reference. Tyler has worked with a variety of conscious brands, including Fair Trade USA, Savers Thrift Store, and Ethique. Venus Envy Drag Queen, Content Creator, and Makeup Artist Venus Envy is a drag queen, content creator, and makeup artist based in Orlando, Florida. She got her start as a drag entertainer in 2015 at Pulse Nightclub and continues to perform at bars, clubs, markets, and restaurants all over Central Florida. She has since branched out online, amassing over half a million followers across social media platforms. She has partnered with many large-scale brands, including Haus Labs, Nyx Cosmetics, Sony, Atlantic Records, HBO Max, Orbitz, FX, KimChi Chic Cosmetics, Versed, and Got2B. She frequently uses her platform to promote other queer artists and raise awareness for LGBTQ+ and mental health causes. Best known for her signature makeup and comedic short-form videos, Venus has made a name for herself in the drag industry and beyond. Stephanie Alexandris, MA Master's Degree, Fashion Business, ESMOD Paris Stephanie Alexandris is a Fashion Stylist in New York City. She has worked with an extensive range of brands, including Alexander Wang, 3.1 Phillip Lim, Maison Margiela and Rick Owens while she was living in Paris, and Harper's Bazaar, J.McLaughlin, and Express during her tenure in New York City. She holds a Master's degree in Fashion Business from ESMOD France and an undergraduate degree from New York University. Charlie Adams Professional Hair Stylist & Board Certified Haircolorist Charlie Adams is a Professional Hair Stylist, Board Certified Haircolorist, and the Founder of Salon XL based in Ann Arbor, Michigan. With over two decades of experience, Charlie specializes in innovative styling and texturizing techniques as well as hair coloring. Charlie and Salon XL have received awards from ELLE Magazine’s Top 100 Salon "Best Hair in America" and "Best Color Salons,” StyleLine’s "Top Shop" in Michigan, Hour Magazine’s "Best of Detroit" and "Best Hair Salon in Ann Arbor,” Harper's Bazaar’s "Best of the Midwest," Allure Magazine’s "The A List," and Process Magazine’s "The Best Color.” Salon XL is also a member of Intercoiffure, a prestigious salon organization. Lorraine Kline Esthetician Lorraine Kline is an Esthetician and the Owner of HAVEN Collective, based in San Diego, California. With 25 years of experience, Lorraine and her team specialize in hair removal, facial, and massage services. HAVEN Collection is a boutique spa focused on supporting each client in reaching their physical, mental, and spiritual goals. Katherine D. Vargas Tattoo Artist Katherine D. Vargas is a Tattoo Artist based in Elizabeth, New Jersey. She works out of Artillery Tattoo Studio in Elizabeth, and is an accomplished artist. Katherine is known for her custom floral pieces, and also specializes in black and grey realism. She draws inspiration for her work from the natural world, and is also accomplished in creating designs of animals. She is a part of the Pro Team for Mad Rabbit, a clean, vegan-formulated tattoo skincare company. Aftercare products like Mad Rabbit’s provide an essential part of the tattoo healing process. Blair Petroni Image Consultant and Color Analysis Expert Blair Petroni is an Image Consultant and Color and Style Analysis expert based in Houston, TX. With over 10 years of experience, Blair is the founder of Maeve Mélange, and specializes in helping her clients look more like themselves. Utilizing Kibbe, Kitchener, and a 12-season and flow color system, Blair helps her clients unlock the puzzle of themselves. She has 14 color and style certifications and has worked with thousands of men and women, including business professionals, students, teachers, entrepreneurs, leaders, actors, and more. She is also the co-host of The Style Therapy Podcast. Before pivoting to Image Consulting, Blair worked as a Fortune 500 Marketer for over 15 years. She has a BBA in Marketing from Texas State University. Craig Whitely Master Barber & Men’s Grooming Consultant Craig Whitely—professionally known as Craig the Barber®—is a master barber and men’s grooming consultant based in West Palm Beach, Florida, with over 15 years of industry experience. He is the CEO of Burke Avenue, a natural skincare line tailored to sensitive skin and shaving needs, recognized by Men’s Health Magazine as the Best Shave Cream and backed by over 290 five-star reviews. Craig is also the founder of the influential blog TheMensRoom.com, where he shares expert advice on men’s skincare, shaving techniques, and grooming trends. Committed to education and empowerment, Craig trains barbers and stylists across the country and has partnered with leading brands such as Lab Series Skincare for Men and Philips Norelco. Brian Thompson Piercing Expert Brian Thompson is a body piercing expert based in Los Angeles, California. He is the CEO, proprietor, and Chief Piercing Officer of The World Famous Body Electric Tattoo, a Los Angeles tattoo and piercing institution on Melrose Avenue. Body Electric opened its doors in 1992 and has been a prominent provider of specialized artistic tattoo design, consulting, and superior piercing services ever since. Brian purchased Body Electric and began running the business in 2008. Brian and Body Electric provide services to a long list of Hollywood A-listers and have been featured on such television shows as 2 Broke Girls, Vanderpump Rules, Kathy Griffin, Basketball Wives, Hollywood Exes, and Chrisley Knows Best. Brian and the business have been featured by multiple publications, including LA Weekly, the Wall Street Journal, Allure, Cosmopolitan, People, Forbes, and more. Brian runs Body Electric with a blend of old-school values and modern safety standards, with all tattoo and piercing artists being fully licensed. Lynn Loheide Body Piercing Expert Lynn Loheide is a body piercing expert based in Seattle, WA. With 14 years of experience, Lynn specializes in surgically altered tissue and gender-affirming piercings. They often work with clients who have different disabilities, different skin, and autoimmune conditions, or who have had surgeries in the areas being pierced. Lynn has been creating educational content for the piercing industry on their blog since 2016, and later expanded to YouTube and TikTok, with the goal of empowering piercers and clients alike with accurate piercing information. Lynn has also been doing body modification archival work for over 7 years, with a focus on the American history of body modification. They have an Applied Jewelers Professional Degree and a Graduate Diamonds Degree from the Gemological Institute of America (GIA), and are a member of the Association of Professional Piercers. Camille Sanghera Beauty Stylist Camille Sanghera is the Owner of Lash Envy Cosmetics and Esvee Beauty in the Vancouver, British Columbia area. Camille is trained and certified in microblading, scalp micropigmentation, eyelash extensions, hair and makeup, and lash lifts. She is listed on Microblading Map Canada and has also been featured on TuneIn Radio and in Bridal Fashion Week Magazine. Erin Micklow Professional Stylist Erin Micklow is an independent wardrobe stylist and image consultant based in Los Angeles, California. She has worked in the acting, beauty, and style industries for over 10 years. She has worked for clients such as Hot Topic, Steady Clothing, and Unique Vintage, and her work has been featured in The Hollywood Reporter, Variety, and Millionaire Matchmaker. Michelle T. Sterling Personal Style and Color Analysis Expert Michelle T. Sterling is a globally acclaimed expert in color analysis and image consulting, and the founder of both Sterling Style Academy and Global Image Group. For over 20 years, she has been shaping the careers of image consultants, personal stylists, fashion influencers, and color analysis consultants worldwide. Her company has been recognized with multiple accolades, including “Best of Manhattan Schools" (2020-2024) and "Best International Stylist & Colour Analysis Academy 2020, 2023 and 2025" by LUXlife Health, Beauty & Wellness Awards. Michelle’s work has been featured in Vogue and Harper’s Bazaar. Her clients include celebrities, royal families, and professionals across the globe. With a degree in French and Spanish from Wellesley College and certifications from the Dale Carnegie Performance Training program and the Protocol School of Washington, Michelle combines her cultural insights with her passion for fashion to empower others. Michelle became a Certified Image Consultant through the Association of Image Consultants International (AICI). She was formally trained in image, color, style, etiquette, communication, and relationship management. Lindsey Myers Color Analysis Expert Lindsey Myers is a color analysis expert based in New York City. She is the Founder and CEO of Created Colorful, a company that teaches their clients their best colors and helps them find themselves in their closets. Since founding the company in 2020, Lindsey and her team have helped over 20,000 clients discover their best colors. Their mission is to help their customers love the way they naturally look, and they provide thoughtful and intentional style guidance and color analysis for people of every shape, size, skin tone, and season of life. At Created Colorful, Lindsey manages a team of 25, and they offer a variety of services, including virtual color analysis, closet curation audio courses, facebook groups for clients of each palette, and weekly blogs with clothing and makeup recommendations by palette. Ashlea Henson Face Painting Artist Ashlea Henson is a makeup and face painting artist and teacher with over 50,000 subscribers on YouTube. She is the Creative Administrator for Mimicks Face Painting and has the International Theatrical & Media Makeup Diploma. Miranda Mendelson Makeup & Beauty Specialist Miranda Mendelson is a Makeup and Beauty Specialist and the Founder of Slashed Beauty. With nearly a decade of experience, she specializes in budget-friendly makeup and beauty products and tips. Additionally, Miranda was named "Most Buzzworthy" Blogger by Allure Magazine and featured in numerous publications such as Glamour Magazine and Huffington Post. Miranda holds a BA in Communications and a minor in Gender and Women's Studies from California State University, Northridge. Heidi Mesbah Facialist Heidi Mesbah is a Facialist and the Owner of Skin Renewal by Heidi in Laguna Hills, California. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in non-invasive skin care, including anti-aging facials, eyebrow shaping, body waxing, and detox body wraps. She also has her own line of skin care products. Heidi is a licensed esthetician in the State of California. Anoushka Dannin Color Analysis Expert Anoushka Dannin is a Color Analysis Expert based in Las Vegas, Nevada. She is a recognized lifestyle & beauty entrepreneur who has made a significant impact in the industry. She has been featured twice on the Channel 8 Las Vegas Now show, showcasing her expertise in seasonal color analysis. Her work has also been highlighted in 89052 Magazine, Shoutout Houston, Shoutout Miami and South City Lifestyle Magazine. In 2020, she was named one of the top influencers in Las Vegas by Entrepreneur Magazine, further solidifying her influence in the beauty and fashion space. She helps clients discover their unique color palettes, and shows them how to use their colors in the wardrobes, makeup, hair coloring, and branding. She offers both virtual and in-person sessions, and also holds workshops and events. She started her Instagram account @foryourreputation in 2017 to share her personal style, and it has now grown into a thriving community of 19K style and color enthusiasts. Anoushka received a BA in Finance from the University of Florida. Smarlen Balbi Nail Technician and Pedicurist Smarlen Balbi is a nail technician based in New York City, NY. With over 5 years of experience, Smarlen has built a loyal clientele in New York City, known for her premium toe services and transformative fungal reconstruction work. She has served over 1,000 clients and is widely recognized as one of the top toe techs in NYC. Smarlen has had the opportunity to work with celebrity clients and public figures, solidifying her reputation in the beauty industry. She is passionate about helping her clients improve their foot health and giving them confidence again. With over 11k followers on her Instagram @nailzbybalbi, she is focusing on content creation and sharing her work and experience with others. Mimi D. Nail Artist Mimi D. is a bi-coastal freelance manicurist. Starting her career in New York, Mimi had the opportunity to participate in nail art events including an Adidas shoe launch, Comic Con, and Sally Hansen’s Mani Match App release. She also worked with designers like Oscar De La Renta, Diane Von Furstenburg, Luar, and DKNY for several New York Fashion Weeks. While on the West Coast, Mimi manicured top celebrities like Angela Bassett, Tyra Banks, Lena Waithe, Busy Phillips, Rosario Dawson and Ciara for magazines including Essence, Tidal, Parents, and Remix Magazine. Mimi is also the creator of two seasons of the Pinterest Creator Originals show “Hands On with Mimi D”, where she shares everything from product recommendations to nail care tips. She was inducted into Old Dominion University’s inaugural class for the Top 40 under 40 alumni, and is the current and singular champion of the Cosmopolitan Magazine Mani Wars. Mimi shares her knowledge by hosting seminars on how to perfect nail art, as well as educating others on what steps to take to secure work as a celebrity & on set manicurist. She has sat on several panels sharing her knowledge of the industry with other top beauty professionals. Her work has also been featured in commercials, on billboards, and in major retailers all across the U.S. Igor Sadurskii Traditional Barber Igor Sadurskii is an international barber and educator based in Long Beach, California. Igor currently works at The Lodge Barber Co and is known for his expertise in classic and modern men’s haircuts, specifically for traditional barbering. Igor has traveled all around the world and given master classes in barbering in over 10 countries. His professional awards include Best Oldschool Barber in 2021 and Gillette’s ‘Best Haircut’. Igor showcases his work and shares his vast knowledge on social media, with a community of over 194k followers on Instagram. He is passionate about the art and craft of barbering. Yvette Jordan Personal Wardrobe Stylist Yvette Jordan is a wardrobe stylist based in New York City, NY. With over 15 years of industry experience, she specializes in styling, organizing, merchandising and visual art. She previously worked as the head stylist for a modeling agency on South Beach and then in visual management in retail stores like Victoria's Secret, Gap, BCBG. In 2020, Yvette transitioned to full-time wardrobe styling, helping inspire confidence in her clients and design a wardrobe they love. Maddy Ferguson Baby Name Consultant Maddy Ferguson is a baby name consultant based in Longview, WA. With over 10 years of experience in the childcare industry, Maddy founded Birdie and Boyd two years ago. She provides a variety of naming inspiration, including sibling sets, rare names, and modern classics. She shares daily name inspiration on Instagram and Pinterest. Maddy has an associate's degree. Lisset Tresvant Esthetician Lisset Tresvant is a licensed esthetician and skincare expert based in Hollywood, Florida. With over 8 years of experience, she is the founder of Glow Esthetics Spa, specializing in helping clients achieve their skin goals. Lisset is the creator of Glow Skin Corrective, a line of targeted skincare solutions, and the founder of GlowBabe Academy, teaching over 575 students in underserved communities the importance of self-care, hygiene and self esteem through her personalized G.L.O.W. method. She has been recognized by Dermascope Magazine and has partnered with industry leaders like Miami Swim Week and MELE Skincare. Sofia Bee Professional Makeup Artist Sofia Bee is a Professional Makeup Artist and Medical Esthetician with more than 20 years of beauty consultation experience. Based in the San Francisco Bay Area, Sofia runs her own beauty practice called "Beauty by Sofia Bee" and has assisted over 1,000 clients including Tyra Banks, Alex Rodriguez, and Russian Rock Group "Leningrad." She received her medical esthetician training from the Marinello School of Beauty in 2001 and received a BS in Business Management from Kaliningrad State University in 2003. Anqi Xue Master Color Analysis Consultant & Professional Makeup Artist Anqi Xue is a color analysis expert and makeup artist based in Corona, CA. Anqi is the Master Consultant at Adored Color, specializing in American, Korean, and Japanese color analysis, makeup analysis, and Korean style makeup. Adored Color offers clients color analysis and image consulting. They provide an in-depth introduction to the principles of color analysis, help determine their client’s tone, use the 12 seasonal colors to determine their season and 180 colors of the Practical Color Coordination System (PCCS) for a more holistic color analysis, and finally also offer makeup analysis. The Adored Color consultants also offer a 5 Day Master Color Analysis class called C+3 Academy that combines Korean, Japanese, and American color analysis. Jake Girard Cosplayer and Costume Designer Jake Girard is a cosplayer and seamster based in Quebec, Canada. With over 15 years of experience, Jake is known as Suki Cosplay online and runs his own cosplay costume shop. The Suki Cosplay Shop offers a variety of products, including hoodies, ninja gear, cosplay sewing patterns, stickers, wigs, and more. As a professional seamster, his focus is on creating high-quality, professional-level costumes that bring characters to life. Jake is especially recognized for his interpretation of Kakashi Hatake from Naruto, feeling both visually inspired and emotionally connected to the character. He has represented Crunchyroll, served as a judge at numerous conventions—including international events and the World Cosplay Summit preliminaries—and has competed as a Master category cosplayer since 2012. Rorz Aesthetics & Self-Improvement Coach Rorz is a men’s aesthetics and self-improvement coach, entrepreneur, and model from Australia. He is the founder of Rorz, a YouTube channel with over 60,000 subscribers where he teaches men how to transform their appearance and reforge their lives through evidence-based looksmaxxing, fitness, and lifestyle strategies. His philosophy centers on the idea that aesthetic improvement isn’t vanity - it’s identity. By unlocking the best-looking version of themselves, men enter a positive feedback loop where confidence, opportunity, and self-belief naturally rise together. Vanessa Garcia Licensed Cosmetologist Vanessa Garcia is a Licensed Cosmetologist based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Vanessa has over 10 years of experience in styling hair. She has a BA in Business Management from the California State University - East Bay and she received her Cosmetology License specializing in Hair Styling and Hair Design from the Fremont Beauty College. Kiara Hamed Tattoo Artist Kiara Hamed is a Tattoo Artist based in Dallas, Texas. She has over nine years of tattoo designing experience. She received her Tattoo Artist Certification in 2010 and a BS in Computer Information Systems from Clark University Atlanta in 2013. Catherine Joubert Professional Stylist Catherine Joubert is a personal stylist who works with a wide range of clients on refining their style. She launched Joubert Styling in 2012 and has since been featured on Buzzfeed and styled celebrities such as Perez Hilton, Angie Everhart, Tony Cavalero, Roy Choi and Kellan Lutz. Trinity Kesterke Piercing Expert Trinity Kesterke is a professional piercer based in Temecula, CA. With over 9 years of experience, Trinity specializes in maximal ear curations and is the owner of AVA Piercing which opened in 2020. She is passionate about piercing education and is a member of the Association of Professional Piercers (APP), attending the annual educational conference and maintaining membership status for her entire staff. In addition, Trinity is passionate about jewelry design and has helped create a variety of designs with BVLA. AVA Piercing strives to provide the highest quality, ethical jewelry, promote a fully inclusive environment, and utilizes a single use studio for the most comfortable, clean piercing experience. Rosa Bluestone Perr Tattoo Artist Rosa Bluestone Perr is a tattoo artist based in Brooklyn, New York. With over 10 years of experience, Rosa specializes in hand-poked tattoos. She is passionate about giving her clients one-of-a-kind pieces they will love forever, and prioritizes providing a comfortable and safe space to be vulnerable. She is also the owner of Studio Bluestone, a collection of wearable art, including handmade, upcycled jewelry and clothing pieces, all made in Brooklyn. Rebecca Shores Makeup Artist Rebecca Shores is a beauty blogger, artist, and makeup enthusiast located in Seattle, Washington. Her YouTube channel of makeup tutorials has over 10,000 subscribers. Jessica Davis Hair Salon Professional Jessica Davis is a Master Cosmetologist and a Cosmetology Instructor with over 19 years of hair salon experience. Jessica is a USTI/AMCA board certified Trichologist, a Natural Hair Care Specialist, and a Master Educator with U.S. Trichology Institute. She is a member of the US Trichology Board of Directors, the National Association of Women Owned Small Businesses, and the Cicatricial Alopecia Research Foundation. She specializes in Afro-textured hair and hair loss, and was given the Associate Trichologist award for her contributions to the field. Jim McFarland Master Shoe Craftsman Jim McFarland is a Master Shoe Craftsman and the Co-Owner of McFarland's Shoe Repair in Lakeland, Florida. Jim has over 40 years of experience and has received more than 20 awards for craftsmanship including the prestigious Grand Silver Cup from the Shoe Service Institute of America (SSIA). Jim is a leader in the shoe repair industry and has served several terms on SSIA’s board of directors as well as two terms as president. Tara Williams Fashion Stylist & Image Consultant Tara Williams is a Fashion Stylist & Image Consultant based in Monument, Colorado. She is the owner of Style Elevation with Tara, a firm offering personal styling and image consulting services. Specifically, Tara designs bespoke service packages for clients, which can include body shape analysis, color analysis, closet and wardrobe edits, personal shopping, photo shoot styling, event styling, and vacation packing. She also creates digital closet look books for her clients, giving them access to their perfectly curated wardrobe at all times through their phones. Through her career, Tara has been able to marry her interest in fashion with her passion to help and empower women. She became a Certified Image Consultant through the Fashion Stylist Institute. She received a Bachelor’s degree in Communication and Media studies from Pacific Lutheran University. Amanda Diekman Parenting Expert Amanda Diekman a parenting coach, author and the founder of The Low Demand Method. Amanda specializes in low-demand parenting practices for kids who have nervous system disabilities, neurodivergences, trauma histories, and who otherwise may not fit the standard model of parenting, really focusing on innovative and responsive style parenting. Through The Low Demand Method, she offers on-demand courses, coaching, and a masterclass 8-week intensive course. Her book, Low Demand Parenting, was a #1 New Release and instant Best Seller. She is also the host of The Low Demand Parenting podcast, offering honest conversations, practical insights, and a joyful, authentic approach to parenting. Amanda has been featured in Additide, Motherly, romper, and has been a guest of the Tilt Parenting and Uniquely Human podcasts. Katie Phillips Certified Massage Therapist Katie Phillips, LMT is a Certified Massage Therapist based in Northern California. She has over 15 years of experience in the massage therapy industry, with specialization in post-op massage therapy. She graduated from the Utah College of Massage Therapy in 1998. Jef Saunders Professional Piercing Expert Jef Saunders has been piercing professionally for over 20 years. He is the Public Relations Coordinator for the Association of Professional Piercers (APP), an international non-profit dedicated to the educating the public on vital health and body piercing safety, and he teaches piercing for the Fakir Intensives. In 2014, Jef was elected to the Association of Professional Piercers' Board of Directors. In 2015, Jef received the APP President’s Award from Brian Skellie. Jacob Joseph Barber and Men's Grooming Content Creator Jacob Joseph is a Barber and Men's Grooming Content Creator. Barry Hairston Barber and Men's Grooming Content Creator Barry Hairston is a Barber and Men's Grooming Content Creator. Home Repair & Care Ben Barkan Garden & Landscape Designer Ben Barkan is a Garden and Landscape Designer and the Owner and Founder of HomeHarvest LLC, an edible landscapes and construction business based in Boston, Massachusetts. Ben has over 12 years of experience working with organic gardening and specializes in designing and building beautiful landscapes with custom construction and creative plant integration. He is a Certified Permaculture Designer, Licensed Construction Supervisor in Massachusetts, and a Licensed Home Improvement Contractor. He holds an associates degree in Sustainable Agriculture from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Ryaan Tuttle Home Improvement Specialist Ryaan Tuttle is a Home Improvement Specialist and the CEO of Best Handyman, Inc. in Boston, Massachusetts. With over 17 years of experience, he specializes in building home service businesses, focusing on creating scalable and efficient brands. With the help of his global team, the companies have achieved over 10+ million in sales and received recognition through magazine features, and enjoy partnerships with wikiHow and Jobber field service software. Boston Magazine and LocalBest.com have named Best Handyman Boston the Best Handyman in Boston. Ryaan holds Construction Supervisor and Home Improvement Contractor Licenses. Susan Stocker Professional Cleaner Susan Stocker runs and owns Susan’s Green Cleaning, the #1 Green Cleaning Company in Seattle. She is well known in the region for outstanding customer service protocols — winning the 2017 Better Business Torch Award for Ethics & Integrity —and her energetic support of green cleaning practices. Victor Belavus Air Conditioning Specialist Victor Belavus is an Air Conditioning Specialist and the Owner of 212 HVAC, an air condition repair and installation company based in Brooklyn, New York. In addition to HVAC and air conditioning units, Victor also specializes in furnace repair and air duct cleaning. He has over 10 years of experience working with HVAC systems. Barry Zakar Handyman Barry Zakar is a professional handyman and the founder of Little Red Truck Home Services based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over ten years of experience, Barry specializes in a variety of carpentry projects. He is skilled at constructing decks, railings, fences, gates, and various pieces of furniture. Barry also holds his MBA from John F. Kennedy University. Amber Rosenberg, PCC Founder of Pacific Life Coach Amber Rosenberg is a Professional Life Coach, Career Coach, and Executive Coach based in the San Francisco Bay Area. As the owner of Pacific Life Coach, she has 20+ years of coaching experience and a background in corporations, tech companies, and nonprofits. Amber trained with the Coaches Training Institute and is a member of the International Coaching Federation (ICF). Elmer Bensinger Pest Control Specialist Elmer Bensinger is a Pest Control Specialist with Eden Advanced Pest Technologies in Spokane, Washington. With over 20 years of experience, Elmer specializes in integrated pest management and products such as insecticides and rodenticides. He studied business at South Puget Sound Community College. Kathi Burns, CPO® Board Certified Professional Organizer Kathi Burns is a board certified Professional Organizer (CPO) and Founder of Organized and Energized!, her consulting business with a mission to empower people to master their environment and personal image by assisting them in taking control, making change and organizing their lives. Kathi has over 17 years of organizing experience and her work has been featured on Better Homes and Gardens, NBC News, Good Morning America, and Entrepreneur. She has a BS in Communication from Ohio University. Chris Parker Founder, Parker Eco Pest Control Chris Parker is the Founder of Parker Eco Pest Control, a sustainable pest control service in Seattle, Washington. Since 2016, Chris has been specializing in Integrated Pest Management and doesn’t use any chemicals for pest removal. He offers removal services for ants, rodents, fleas, spiders, wasps, and more. Chris is a certified Commercial Pesticide Applicator in Washington State and received his bachelor’s from the University of Washington. Caitlin Jaymes Closet Organizer & Fashion Stylist Caitlin Jaymes is a Closet Organizer and Fashion Stylist based in Los Angeles, California. With a background in Fashion PR and Fashion Design, she specializes in creating wardrobes for her clients with pieces they already own. She has experience working with celebrities, editorial shoots, and men and women of all ages. Caitlin uses fashion and organization to help instill and influence confidence, ambition, and stress-free lifestyles for all her clients. She runs her business by two guiding principles: “fashion has no rules, only guidance on how to look and feel your best” and “life has too many stressors, don’t let clutter be one of them.” Caitlin’s work has been featured on HGTV, The Rachael Ray Show, VoyageLA, Liverpool Los Angeles, and the Brother Snapchat Channel. David Balkan Professional Plumber & CEO of Balkan Sewer & Water Main David Balkan is a Professional Plumber, CEO of Balkan Sewer and Water Main Service, and President of Balkan Sewer and Drain Cleaning. As a hands-on owner of these companies for over 40 years, David is knowledgeable about water service lines, sewers, and drain line issues. David is a Committee Chairman of the Master Plumbers Council and has sat on the Executive Committee of the Sub Surface Plumbers Association of New York for over 30 years. His knowledge and solution-oriented approach contributed to Balkan Sewer and Water Main Service being the largest and most trusted service in New York City and the recipient of the 2017 Angie’s List Super Service Award. Ricardo Mitchell Electrician & Construction Professional, CN Coterie Ricardo Mitchell is the CEO of CN Coterie, a fully licensed and insured Lead EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) Certified construction company located in Manhattan, New York. CN Coterie specializes in full home renovation, electrical, plumbing, carpentry, cabinetry, furniture restoration, OATH/ECB (Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings/Environmental Control Board) violations removal, and DOB (Department of Buildings) violations removal. Ricardo has over 10 years of electrical and construction experience and his partners have over 30 years of relevant experience. Art Fricke Home Renovation & Repair Specialist Art Fricke is a home renovation and repair specialist and the owner of Art Tile & Renovation based in Austin, Texas. With over 10 years of experience, he specializes in bathroom and kitchen renovations. Art focuses on a single contractor approach to customized renovation work, and performs projects such as installing custom tile showers, fixing tiled shower leaks, replacing cracked tiles, and installing floor and wall tile. Kevin Carrillo Pest Control Specialist, MMPC Kevin Carrillo is a Pest Control Specialist and the Senior Project Manager for MMPC, a pest control service and certified Minority-owned Business Enterprise (MBE) based in the New York City area. MMPC is certified by the industry’s leading codes and practices, including the National Pest Management Association (NPMA), QualityPro, GreenPro, and The New York Pest Management Association (NYPMA).  MMPC's work has been featured in CNN, NPR, and ABC News. Patrick Coye Painting Specialist Patrick Coye is the owner and operator of Patrick’s Painting & Home Improvement in Alexandria, Virginia. With over 15 years of experience in residential construction, Patrick specializes in painting, wallpaper removal/installation, drywall, staining decks and fences, and kitchen cabinetry painting. To date, Patrick and his team have painted over 2,000 houses and stained over 800 decks. Patrick's Company won a "Top Job" award from the American Painting contractor magazine in 2020. Patrick Johns Home Improvement Specialist Patrick Johns is a Home Improvement Specialist and the Owner of CatchAll Handyman Services. With more than 28 years of experience, he has worked on a variety of home improvement projects, such as carpentry, plumbing, and door and window installations in both commercial and residential properties. Sina Kamran Hardscape Specialist Sina Kamran is a Hardscaping Specialist and the Owner of Design Scapes, Inc. in Santa Monica, California. With over 15 years of experience, he specializes in customized, site-specific hardscaping and landscaping design/build projects. He's a certified National Concrete Masonry Association (NCMA) designer, a certified installer with the Interlocking Concrete Pavement Institute (ICPI), and a Rain Bird Certified Irrigation Professional. Additionally, Design Scapes, Inc. has many 5-star rated reviews. Karen Parziale Home Stager & Interior Designer Karen Parziale is a Home Stager, Home Organizer, and the Founder of The Real Estate Staging Studio based in Hoboken, New Jersey. Karen has over 15 years of home staging and decorating experience and has staged over 5,000 homes. She specializes in project management, space planning, material selections, and builder, architect, and client relationships. Marty Stevens-Heebner, SMM-C, CPO® Certified Professional Organizer & Senior Move Manager Marty Stevens-Heebner is a Certified Professional Organizer (CPO) and Founder of Clear Home Solutions, a home organizing and senior moving management company based in Southern California. Marty is the President of the National Association of Senior and Specialty Move Managers (NASMM), with certifications in Senior and Specialty Move Management, Professional Organizing, and Aging in Place. Clear Home Solutions was the first nationally accredited firm in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties. Marty is the first Certified Senior Move Manager (SMM-C) in the United States and has been acknowledged as a Hoarding Specialist and ADHD Specialist through the Institute for Challenging Disorganization. Marty also hosts How to Move Your Mom (and still be on speaking terms afterward), a podcast dedicated to later life and all its idiosyncrasies. She received her B.A. in History from Cornell University and an MFA from the University of California, Los Angeles. Mark Spelman Construction Professional Mark Spelman is a General Contractor based in Austin, Texas. With over 30 years of construction experience, Mark specializes in constructing interiors, project management, and project estimation. He has been a construction professional since 1987. Anthony "TC" Williams Professional Landscaper Anthony "TC" Williams is a Professional Landscaper in Idaho. He is the President and Founder of Aqua Conservation Landscape & Irrigation, an Idaho Registered Landscape Business Entity. With over 21 years of landscaping experience, TC has worked on projects such as the Idaho Botanical Garden in Boise, Idaho. He is a Idaho Registered Contractor and a previously Licensed Irrigator in the State of Texas. Gerber Ortiz-Vega Masonry Specialist & Founder, GO Masonry LLC Gerber Ortiz-Vega is a Masonry Specialist and the Founder of GO Masonry LLC, a masonry company based in Northern Virginia. Gerber specializes in providing brick and stone laying services, concrete installations, and masonry repairs. Gerber has over four years of experience running GO Masonry and over ten years of general masonry work experience. He earned a BA in Marketing from the University of Mary Washington in 2017. Sam Hubbard Professional Carpenter Sam Hubbard is a Professional Carpenter and the Owner of Highlands Remodeling. He has over 19 years of experience in the carpentry industry. Sam specializes in both home remodels and custom woodworking projects. Highlands Remodel has been recognized for their kitchen remodels, home woodworking projects, cabinetry, closet installations, and handyman services. Highlands Remodeling serves communities throughout both North and South Carolina, and holds an official certification from the Association of Certified Handyman Professionals (ACHP). Sam and his company take pride in  their ability to transform their client’s existing spaces into something truly remarkable. Jason Phillip Handyman Jason Phillip is a handyman and home services expert based in Brooklyn, New York. He founded a homes services business, Iconic Interior Installations, in 2013, and spent over 9 years running the business. His company specialized in professionally mounting and installing objects, including mounting window AC units, designing art gallery walls, installing kitchen cabinets, and replacing light fixtures on drywall, brick, and plaster. He was rated a "Top Pro" every year from 2016-2022 by Thumbtack for being one of the highest-rated, most popular professionals on Thumbtack. Jason closed Iconic Interior Installations in 2022, but continues to hone his home services expertise. He has also cultivated a career as a Machine Learning Engineer, and has been working to drive innovation in space-focused satellite technology since 2022. Chai Saechao Plant Specialist Chai Saechao is the Founder and Owner of Plant Therapy, an indoor-plant store founded in 2018 based in San Francisco, California. As a self-described plant doctor, he believes in the therapeutic power of plants, hoping to keep sharing his love of plants with anyone willing to listen and learn. Scott McCombe Pest Control Specialist Scott McCombe is the CEO of Summit Environmental Solutions (SES), a family-owned local pest solutions, animal control, and home insulation company based in Northern Virginia. Founded in 1991, SES has an A+ rating with the Better Business Bureau and has been awarded “Top Rated Professional,” and “Elite Service Award" by HomeAdvisor. Gevorg Grigorian Appliance Repair Expert Gevorg Grigorian is an Appliance Repair Specialist and the Owner of G and R Appliance Repair in Los Angeles, California. With over 15 years of experience, Gevorg specializes in residential and commercial appliance repairs as well as heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) services. Gevorg holds a BS in Business Administration and Management from California State University-Northridge. Dave Jones Master Plumber, Roto-Rooter Plumbing & Water Cleanup Dave Jones is a Professional Plumber and the Midwest Regional Vice President at Roto-Rooter Plumbing & Water Cleanup. In 1992, Jones joined Roto-Rooter as a drain service technician at the age of 18. Since then, he has risen through the ranks into positions of increasing authority. Dave served as general manager of Roto-Rooter’s Charlotte, North Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia branches before being promoted to Contractor Area Manager and later to Regional Vice President. Dave holds Master Plumber Licenses in Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and Georgia. Josh Goldenberg Residential Remodeling Expert Josh Goldenberg is a Residential Remodeling Expert and the Co-Founder of 5blox, based in the Greater Los Angeles area. With more than seven years of experience, Josh and his team specialize in luxurious and sustainable home renovations. 5blox is fully licensed and bonded. Eric Shipe Home Improvement Specialist Eric Shipe is a Kitchen and Bath Designer and the Owner of Bath + Kitchen based in Washington DC. Eric and his team specialize in cabinetry, design, and remodels. They serve homeowners, interior designers, architects, and contractors with a refined process, creative ideas, 4K photo-realistic renderings, and 360 Panoramic views. Bath + Kitchen was featured in Best of Houzz 2017-2020. Eric holds a BA in Economics and Business Administration from Ursinus College. Kanika Khurana Interior Designer Kanika Khurana is an Interior Designer and the Owner of Kanika Design. With over 12 years of experience, Kanika specializes in remodeling, refurnishing, and color consulting. Kanika holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Psychology from San Francisco State University, a Redesign and Home Staging Certification, and an Associate Degree in Business Administration from Cañada College. Rob Litman Licensed Landscaper & General Contractor Rob Litman is a Landscaper, General Contractor, and the CEO of Vitoli Inc., a landscaping, hardscaping, ecoscaping, and swimming pool design company in Los Angeles, California. With over 20 years of experience in construction, Rob specializes in energy-efficient and drought-tolerant landscaping. He holds General Building Contractor (Class B) and Registered Pool/Spa Contractor Licenses. In 2007, Rob won House of the Year in Gardena, California. Mitchell Newman Construction Professional Mitchell Newman is a Construction Professional based in Chicago, Illinois. He is the Principal at Habitar Design, an interior design firm that specializes in floor plans, kitchen and bath design, furniture layout, custom built-ins, custom and semi-custom cabinetry, staging, models, and facades. Habitar features a strong design-build capability, utilizing Mitchell’s sister company, Stratagem Construction. Mitchell is the General Contractor at Strategem, and has 20 years of experience in construction, interior design and real estate development. Mitchell’s two companies seamlessly combine interior design with construction, allowing him to design with synchony for the client. He received an M.D. from the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine and a BS in Chemistry from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Daniel Stoescu Master Electrician Daniel Stoescu is a Master Electrician and the Owner and Operator of Home Tech Solutions, LLC in Hampton, Virginia. With over a decade of experience, Daniel specializes in wiring residential, commercial, and light industrial structures. The Home Tech Solutions team has over four decades of combined experience and offers comprehensive solutions for residential electrical needs. James Schuelke Professional Plumber James Schuelke, along with his twin brother David, is the co-owner of the Twin Home Experts, a licensed plumbing, leak detection, and mold inspection company based in Los Angeles, California. James has over 32 years of home service and business plumbing experience and has expanded the Twin Home Experts to Phoenix, Arizona and the Pacific Northwest. Kadi Dulude House Cleaning Professional Kadi Dulude is a House Cleaning Professional and the Owner of Wizard of Homes, a New York City-based cleaning company. Kadi has over 10 years of experience and manages a team of over 90 registered cleaning professionals. Her cleaning advice has been featured in Architectural Digest and New York Magazine. Trevor Storey Appliance Technician Trevor Storey is an Appliance Technician based in Santa Cruz, California. With over a decade of experience, he is the owner of Santa Cruz Appliance Repair, providing appliance repair and maintenance services for all major appliances. He also offers propane conversion, vent cleaning, and DIY virtual repair consultations. Santa Cruz Appliance Repair received a Quality Business Award in 2024 as the Best Appliance Repair company in Santa Cruz, with an over 95% quality score. Trevor received a B.A. in Environmental Studies from the University of California, Santa Cruz. Peter Salerno Installation Expert Peter Salerno is the owner of Hook it Up Installation, a professional installation company, which has been hanging art and other objects around Chicago, Illinois for over 10 years. Peter also has over 20 years of experience installing art and other mountable objects in residential, commercial, healthcare and hospitality contexts. Jeff Baldwin Residential Painter Jeff Baldwin is a Residential Painter and the Owner of Baldwin Custom Painting, based in San Francisco, CA. With two decades of painting experience, Jeff specializes in high-end residential and small commercial painting projects. Dedicated to quality craftsmanship, Jeff and Baldwin Custom Painting provide bonded/insured, licensed, and lead-safe certified services in residential painting, light commercial painting, and wood refinishing. Alberto DeJesus Construction Specialist Alberto DeJesus is a Construction Specialist and the CEO of DeJesus Industries. With more than four years of experience, he specializes in high-end real estate development and construction. Alberto and DeJesus Industries have been featured on NBC News and have worked with numerous well-known companies, including Mazda, Amazon, and CVS. Alberto holds a Bachelor’s degree from Boston University. David Bitan Roofing Contractor & Maintenance Professional David Bitan is a roofing professional, licensed contractor, and the owner and founder of Bumble Roofing based in Southern California. With over 12 years of construction industry experience, David specializes in restoring, repairing, and maintaining residential, commercial, and industrial roofs. With over 60 years of combined experience, Bumble Roofing provides easy, friendly services to structures including residential, commercial, industrial, multi-family, and government buildings along with hospitals, hotels, and churches. Monique Capanelli Plant Specialist Monique Capanelli is a Plant Specialist and the Owner and Designer for Articulture Designs, an innovative design firm and boutique in Austin, Texas. With over 15 years of experience, Monique specializes in interior botanical design, living walls, event decor, and sustainable landscape design. She attended the University of Texas at Austin. Monique is a Certified Permaculture Designer. She provides plant and botanical design experiences, from small gifts to entire transformations, to shoppers as well as commercial clients including Whole Foods Market and The Four Seasons. Priscilla Bettencourt Home Stager & Interior Designer Priscilla Bettencourt is an Home Stager, Interior Designer, and the Founder of Halcyon Home Staging + Design, a home staging business based in San Francisco, California. Halcyon specializes in expansive staging services geared to maximize a property's resale value and transform any home into an inviting environment for potential buyers.  Halcyon has received the “Best of Houzz Service” Award in 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020. Homer Flores Appliance Repair Specialist Homer Flores is an Appliance Repair Specialist and Training Manager at PreFix, a home maintenance company out of Austin, Texas. With over 15 years of experience, Homer specializes in home improvement, remodeling, and construction. Homer’s dedication to the PreFix mission of providing hassle-free one-stop-shop service for home care, in addition to their completion of the Capital Factory and Techstars Accelerators, has contributed to their growth of service to over 50 zip codes throughout the greater Austin area. Gino Colucci Home Improvement Specialist Gino Colucci is a Home Improvement Specialist and the Owner of Crackerjacks Handyman Services (not a licensed contractor) in Chandler, Arizona. Crackerjacks Handyman Services offers an effective cost-saving solution for commercial and residential repair and maintenance needs, specializing in smaller projects. Crackerjacks Handyman Services carries liability insurance and all technicians go through a background check. Julie Naylon Professional Organizer Julie Naylon is the Founder of No Wire Hangers, a professional organizing service based out of Los Angeles, California. No Wire Hangers provides residential and office organizing and consulting services. Julie's work has been featured in Daily Candy, Marie Claire, and Architectural Digest, and she has appeared on The Conan O’Brien Show. In 2009 at The Los Angeles Organizing Awards she was honored with “The Most Eco-Friendly Organizer”. Jesse Kuhlman Master Electrician, Kuhlman Electric Jesse Kuhlman is a Master Electrician and the Owner of Kuhlman Electric based in Massachusetts. Jesse specializes in all aspects of home and residential wiring, troubleshooting, generator installation, and WiFi thermostats. Jesse is also the author of four eBooks on home wiring including "Residential Electrical Troubleshooting" which covers basic electrical troubleshooting in residential homes. Scott Johnson Landscape & Design Consultant Scott Johnson is the Owner and Lead Design Consultant for Concrete Creations, Inc., an award-winning landscape and design company based in the San Diego, California metro area. He has over 30 years of experience in the pool and landscape construction industry and specializes in large estate outdoor environment construction projects. His work has been featured in San Diego Home & Garden Magazine and on Pool Kings TV Show. He earned a BS degree in Construction Management with an emphasis in Architecture and CAD design from Northern Arizona University. Haim Shemesh Carpet & Rug Cleaning Specialist Haim Shemesh is a Carpet and Rug Cleaning Specialist and the Owner of Sunlight Fine Rug Care & Restoration, a business based in New York City. Haim specializes in Oriental, Persian, handmade, and antique rug cleaning and repair. He also conducts rug restoration along with fire damage care. He has over 17 years of experience in the carpet cleaning industry. Sunlight Fine Rug Care & Restoration has been awarded Angie's List Super Service Award in 2017 and 2018. Their clients include Staples, Ace Hotel, Momofuku, Banana Republic, and more. Allen Lee Home Improvement Specialist Allen Lee is a Home Improvement Specialist and the Owner of Honest Lee Handyman Services, a licensed and insured handyman business servicing Sacramento, California, and surrounding areas. Working with homeowners and businesses to get their small repairs done in a timely and efficient manner, Honest Lee Handyman Services provides gutter and dryer vent cleaning along with fixture, fence, drywall, and toilet repairs. Jacob Pischer Home Improvement Specialist Jacob Pischer is a Home Improvement Specialist and the Owner of Helpful Badger, a home repair service in Portland, OR. With over four years of experience, Jacob specializes in a variety of handyman services including pressure washing, cleaning gutters, repairing drywall, fixing leaky plumbing fixtures, and repairing broken doors. Jacob studied at Madison Area Technical College and has a background in real estate investment. Angelica Savard Home Stager, Realtor, & Interior Designer Angelica Savard is a Home Stager, Realtor, and Interior Designer based in Long Beach, California. She is also the Co-owner of Elegant Domain Interiors LLC, a business that offers design consulting, home staging, and window treatments. She has over 15 years of interior design and consulting experience. She earned a BA from California State University Long Beach with an emphasis on Interior Architectural Design. Andres Matheu Commercial Painter Andres Matheu is the Owner of Hömm Certified Painting Systems, an Interior and Exterior Residential painting business based in the Washington, DC Metro area. Andres specializes in interior and exterior residential painting, color consultations, cabinet refinishing, wallpaper removal, and epoxy flooring among other services. An EPA Lead-safe Certified Firm, Hömm Certified Painting Systems has been awarded the Best of Houzz 2019 Service, Angie's List Super Service Award 2019, and Northern Virginia Magazine's 2018 Best Home Experts (painters) award. Mike Garcia Licensed Landscape Contractor Mike Garcia is a Licensed Landscape Contractor and the Founder of Enviroscape LA, a full-service landscape design and construction firm in Los Angeles, California. With over 30 years of experience, Mike specializes in sustainable landscape practices. Mike holds an Ornamental Horticulture degree, C-27 Landscape Contractor and D-49 Tree Service Contractor licenses, and Permaculture Design, California Naturalist, International Certified Professional Pond Contractor, and Pond Building certifications. He is one of eight Internationally Certified Pond Builders in the world. Enviroscape LA has won landscape and water feature awards from the International Professional Pond Contractors Association (IPPCA), National Association of Pond Professionals (NAPP), and the California Landscape Contractors Association (CLCA). Mike is a past president of the CLCA and currently serves on their local Board of Directors. Enviroscape LA has been featured in PONDS USA Magazine, Pond and Garden Lifestyles Magazine, and the Los Angeles Times. Mike has appeared on Extreme Home Makeover, HGTV's Landscapers Challenge, and A & E's series Fix That Yard. MacKenzie Cain Interior Designer & LEED Green Associate MacKenzie Cain is an Interior Designer based in Chicago, Illinois. MacKenzie has over seven years of experience in interior design and architectural design, and is currently an Associate Designer at Devin Grace Interiors. She received a BA in Interior Design from Purdue University in 2013 and received her LEED Green Associate certification from the Green Building Certification Institute in 2013. Joshua Bloom Pest Control Specialist Joshua Bloom is a Pest Control Specialist and the Vice President of Operations of Standard Pest Management, a pest control company based in New York City. He has over 20 years of experience in the pest control industry and specializes in commercial and large facility pest control management. Standard Pest Control also specializes in ant, bed bug, cockroach, fly, and rodent control. Joshua is licensed by the NYSDEC (New York State Department of Environmental Conservation) for termite control. James Guth Painting Specialist James Guth is the co-owner and founder of Chesapeake Painting Services LLC. With over 20 years of experience, James specializes in exterior and interior painting, drywall, powerwashing, wallpaper, staining, sealing, and carpentry. James holds a BS in Economics and Business Administration with a concentration in Finance from Towson University Hussam Bin Break Pest Control Professional Hussam Bin Break is a Certified Commercial Pesticide Applicator and Operations Manager. He and his brother Hussam co-founded Diagno Pest Control in the greater Philadelphia area in 2018, and have since expanded their  services to include the New Jersey market. Diagno Pest Control has received Home Advisor's Top Rated and Elite Service Badges for quality of work and customer service. Michael Fox Window Repair Specialist Michael Fox is a Window Repair Specialist and the President at Window Repair Systems and WindowHardwareDirect.com, based in Westminster, South Carolina. With over 25 years of experience, Michael specializes in commercial window repair and service. He holds a business degree from Monroe Community College and SUNY Brockport. Michael has helped Window Repair Systems and WindowHardwareDirect.com become an industry leader in commercial window repair and hardware distribution, servicing schools and businesses and training large public school systems. James Hornof Master Electrician James Hornof is a Master Electrician and the Owner and President of B & W Electric based in Denver, Colorado. With over two decades of experience in the electrical construction industry, James specializes in field installation, management, estimating, and design. He graduated top of his class in electrical trade school and studied Business Management at The Community College of Denver. James holds a Master Electrician license in Colorado, Wyoming, and Texas. Jeff Huynh Professional Handyman Jeff Huynh is the owner of Moseybolt, a full service solution in home services, renovations, and repair in the Greater Seattle area. He has over five years of handyman experience. He has a BS in Business Administration from the San Francisco State University and his Certificate in Industrial Electronics Technology from North Seattle College. Aaron Beth Appliance Technician Aaron Beth is the founder of Aaron’s Refrigeration Company in New York City and a factory certified installer (FCI) for Sub-Zero products. He specializes in the service and maintenance of built-in refrigerators, wine coolers and ice machines. With over 54 years of experience, Aaron is the recipient of numerous Super-Service awards from Angie’s Lists and 2019 Best-of-the City. Mike Kapur Certified Mold Assessor & Home Inspector, Sonic Home Inspections Mike Kapur is a home inspector and the owner of Sonic Home Inspections, a home inspection company in Westchester, New York. With over 15 years of experience in pre-inspecting properties, Mike specializes in mold, radon, asbestos, lead, water, and air quality testing as well as hazardous materials, pest, infrared, and general home inspections. Prior to founding Sonic Home Inspections, Mike worked pre-inspecting apartments. Mike holds a BS in Accounting from Queens College and is a Certified Mold Assessor in the state of New York. Matt Bowman Gardener & Owner, Tradition Market & Garden Matt Bowman is a Gardener, Landscaper, the Owner of Georgia Farm to Table, and the Owner of Tradition Property Services in Atlanta, Georgia. With over 20 years experience, he specializes in organic gardening, landscape maintenance, handyman services, homecare services, and supplying Christmas trees. Matt earned a BA in Journalism from the University of Georgia. Gus Briones Landscaping Specialist Gus Briones is a Landscaping Specialist based in Lake Elsinore, California. Gus has over 30 years of industry experience working on renovations and new builds for clients. He is the founder of Rock, Turf & Landscape, specializing in landscaping, hardscaping, landscape maintenance and construction, and outdoor solutions. Gus also shares landscaping content on social media to over 17k followers. Steve Downs Live Bee Removal Specialist Steve Downs is a Live Honey Bee Removal Specialist, Honey bee Preservationist, and the Owner of Beecasso Live Bee Removal Inc, a licensed bee removal and relocation business based in the Los Angeles, California metro area. Steve has over 20 years of humane bee capturing and bee removal experience for both commercial and residential locations. Working with beekeepers, agriculturalists, and bee hobbyists, Steve sets up bee hives throughout the Los Angeles area and promotes the survival of bees. He has a passion for honeybee preservation and has created his own Beecasso sanctuary where rescued bee hives are relocated and preserved. Artemisia Nursery Plant Nursery & Garden Shop Artemisia Nursery is a retail plant nursery in Northeast Los Angeles specializing in California native plants. Artemisia Nursery is a worker-owned small business with plans to become a worker-owned cooperative. In addition to California native plants, Artemisia Nursery offers a selection of succulents, heirloom veggie and herb starts, house plants, pottery, and gardening tools and supplies. Drawing on the knowledge of the founders, Artemisia Nursery also offers consultations, designs, and installations. Lui Colmenares Licensed Contractor Lui Colmenares is a Licensed Home Improvement Contractor and Handyman for Mr. Handy NYC based in New York City, New York. Lui is trained and educated as an industrial engineer and specializes in carpentry, painting, and general handyman work such as mounting TVs, doorknob and deadbolt installation, furniture assembly, tile repair, and grouting. Mr. Handy NYC prides itself on quality work performed with speed, skill, and punctuality. Robert Rybarski Organizational Specialist Robert Rybarski is an Organizational Specialist and Co-Owner of Conquering Clutter, a business that customizes closets, garages, and plantation shutters to ensure organized homes and lifestyles. Robert has over 23 years of consulting and sales experience in the organization industry. His business is based in Southern California. Tony Hoang Landscaping Manager Tony Hoang is a Landscaper and the Principal at H&J Landscaping & Concrete Contractor in Newark, CA. With over six years of experience, he specializes in designing the perfect concrete driveways & backyard patios for homes. H&J Landscaping & Concrete Contractor is a 4.5-star business on Yelp. Taya Wright, NAPO, RESA Professional Home Stager & Organizer Taya Wright is a Professional Home Stager & Organizer and the Founder of Just Organized by Taya, a BBB Accredited Home Styling Company based in Houston, Texas. Taya has over eight years of home staging and decorating experience. She is a member of the National Association of Professional Organizers (NAPO) and a member of the Real Estate Staging Association (RESA). Within RESA, she is the current RESA Houston chapter president. She is a graduate of the Home Staging Diva® Business program. Ashley Moon, MA Professional Organizer Ashley Moon is the Founder and CEO of Creatively Neat, a virtual organizing and life coaching business based in Los Angeles, California. In addition to helping people organize their best life, she has a fabulous team of organizers ready to de-clutter your home or business. Ashley hosts workshops and speaking engagements at various venues and festivals. She has trained with Coach Approach and Heart Core for organizing and business coaching respectively. She has an MA in Human Development and Social Change from Pacific Oaks College. Lana Starr, AIFD Certified Floral Designer & Owner, Dream Flowers Lana Starr is a Certified Floral Designer and the Owner of Dream Flowers, a floral design studio based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Dream Flowers specializes in events, weddings, celebrations, and corporate events. Lana has over 14 years of experience in the floral industry and her work has been featured in floral books and magazines such as International Floral Art, Fusion Flowers, Florist Review, and Nacre. Lana is a member of the American Institute of Floral Designers (AIFD) since 2016 and is a California Certified Floral Designer (CCF) since 2012. Marvin Woo Licensed Electrician Marvin Woo is a licensed electrician and the Owner of Woo's Electrical & Appliance based in East O’ahu. With over two decades of experience, he specializes in troubleshooting issues and maintaining residential electrical systems. Marvin is both licensed and insured to complete electrical work in the state of Hawaii. Jon Rowland Plant Specialist Jon Rowland is a Plant Specialist and the Founder of the Green House Center blog. With over eight years of plant and garden experience, he specializes in greenhouse care, lawn and garden maintenance, and home appliance recommendations. Jon aims to share his knowledge so that others can live a more convenient, efficient, and environmentally friendly lifestyle. Sam Adams Professional Contractor Sam Adams is the owner of Cherry Design + Build, a residential design and construction firm, which has been operating in the Greater Seattle Area for over 13 years. A former architect, Sam is now a full-service contractor, specializing in residential remodels and additions. Christopher Lanier Handyman Christopher Lanier is a Handyman and the former Owner and operator of Watson & Company Handiworks, a handyman business in Austin, Texas. For nearly 5 years Christopher specialized in outdoor light installation, furniture assembly, TV mounting, and window treatment installation. Before closing in 2021 Watson & Company Handiworks was rated as a Top Pro by Thumbtack. Christopher holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Texas at Austin. He currently works as an inventory manager at Grocery TV, the largest digital advertising network in the U.S. grocery industry. Patricia Penker Interior Designer Patricia Penker is an Interior Designer and the Owner of Exclusively To Design, one of the top residential design companies in South Florida. With over 25 years of experience, Patricia specializes in interior design, interior decorating, and home staging. Patricia holds a Bachelor’s degree in Fashion Design from the University of Cincinnati and a Master’s Certificate in Digital Design and 3D Modeling from CADDTrain. Patricia’s interior designs have been featured on HGTV’s Rip and Renew and Save My Bath and in celebrity homes. Exclusively To Design has been recommended on Houzz, Expertise - Best Home Staging in Miami and Best Interior Designers in Miami, and Best of HomeGuide. Egor Shevtsov Home Improvement Specialist Egor Shevtsov is a Home Improvement Specialist and Managing Partner at Appliance Techie in Orange County, California. With over seven years of experience, he specializes in maintaining and repairing appliances. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration and Management from the International American University and a Master of Business Administration from the Russian University of Cooperation, former Moscow University of Consumer Cooperation. Jocotra Cathey TV Mounting Service Expert Jocotra Cathey is a TV Mounting Service Expert and the business owner of TV Mount Charlotte, a professional TV mounting company operating in Charlotte, North Carolina. For the past 18 years, Jocotra's company has offered premier home theater installation services, specializing in home theater design, wiring and installation, projector and screen installation, wire concealing, and more. He has received certifications in Computer Science and Low-Voltage Certification from Central Piedmont Community College. Andrew Peters Architecture & Construction Specialist Andrew Peters is an Architecture and Construction Specialist and a Principal at Peters Design-Build, a full service architecture and construction firm in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 20 years of experience, Andrew specializes in sustainable and holistic design and building practices. Andrew holds a Bachelor of Architecture and a Project Management Professional (PMP) certification and is a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-Accredited Professional. He served as Project Manager for the international-award-winning “Refract House,” Team California’s entry in the 2009 U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon, a project featured in over 600 online and print articles. Samuel Ramsey, PhD Entomologist Dr. Samuel Ramsey is an Entomologist and a researcher with the United States Department of Agriculture. Dr. Ramsey has extensive knowledge of symbiosis and specializes in insect disease spread, parasite behavior, mutualism development, biological control, invasive species ecology, pollinator health, and insect pest control. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Entomology from Cornell University and a Ph.D. in Entomology from the University of Maryland. Dr. Ramsey’s research on bees has enabled researchers to develop targeted control techniques to restore honey bee populations worldwide. He also hosts a YouTube series called “Dr. Buggs.” Surekha Krishnan Metallurgy Expert Surekha Krishnan is a Metallurgy Expert based in Columbia, South Carolina. Surekha specializes in both arc welding and solid-state welding and has been a Plant Metallurgist at FN America, LLC since 2021. Surekha has over 7 years of experience, is an expert in all heat treat processes and record retention, has prior experience as a Weld Engineer, and has taught various IIW welding courses in the past. Ralph Childers Electrical Professional Ralph Childers is a master electrician based in the Portland, Oregon area with over 30 years of conducting and teaching electrical work. Ralph received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette and holds an Oregon Journeyman Electrical License as well as electrician licenses in Louisiana and Texas. Benjamin Hansen Licensed Landscape Contractor Benjamin Hansen is a Landscape Contractor and the Owner of Artscape Gardens, a boutique landscaping company in Los Angeles, California. With over 12 years of experience, Benjamin specializes in transforming properties into aesthetic, functional, and drought-tolerant oases. Benjamin uses color scheme, dimension, and water conscious spaces to inspire the design and installation of soft scape, hardscape, patios, pathways, irrigation, drainage, fencing, concrete, lighting, and electrical work. Artscape Gardens covers all areas of the C-27 landscape contractor classification. Harmony Corelitz Plant Specialist Harmony Corelitz is a Plant Specialist and the Ecommerce Manager at Crimson Horticultural Rarities, Inc, a boutiue offering rare plants, flower arragements, and handmade goods. Harmony grew up helping her parents run their family business in plant maintenance and interior plantscaping.  Harmony specializes in indoor plant care and interior plant design. Prior to her workwith Crimson Horticultural Rarities, she started her pop-up plant and vintage home goods shop called Younger Child and helped her former employer, Plants and Friends, grow and expand to two locations. She holds a BA from the University of San Francisco. Agustin Renoj Home Improvement Specialist Agustin Renoj is a Home Improvement Specialist with Renoj Handyman based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 18 years of construction experience, Agustin specializes in carpentry, painting, and exterior, interior, kitchen, and bathroom renovations. Renoj Handyman is a family-owned business that consists of craftsmen trained in all areas of construction. Melissa & Michael Gabso Remodel & Redesign Experts Melissa and Michael Gabso are the Owners of MC Construction & Decks based in Los Angeles, California. With over ten years of experience, they specialize in exterior and interior remodeling and redesign, including kitchen, bathroom, and deck construction. MC Construction & Decks also provides plans and permitting services and is known for backyard beautification projects. MG Construction & Decks has been rated as one of the top contractors in the Los Angeles area year after year. Eduardo Peralta House Cleaning Specialist Eduardo Peralta is a House Cleaning Specialist based in San Jose, Califoria. He is the Manager of Best Maid House Cleaning, a cleaning company that services San Jose and the Silicon Valley area. With over six years of experience, Eduardo and the Best Maid House Cleaning team specialize in home deep-cleaning, post-construction cleaning, and green and eco-friendly cleaning services. They also offer move-in/move-out services and always make customer satisfaction their #1 priority. Best Maid House Cleaning is fully licensed and insured. Suzanne Lasky, ASID Interior Design Consultant Suzanne Lasky is an Interior Designer and the Founder of S Interior Design, a design consulting company based in Scottsdale, Arizona specializing in new home builds,  home remodels, and all related design options for residential and small business clients. Suzanne has over 19 years of interior design and consulting experience. She is an Allied Member of the ASID (American Society of Interior Designers). She earned a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Indiana University and an AAS in Interior Design from Scottsdale Community College. Jeanne Walker Florist Jeanne Walker is a Florist and the Owner of Fringe Flower Company, a floral design shop that specializes in weddings, special events, and daily deliveries. Fringe Flower Company, based in Walnut Creek, California, provides customized hand-tied and vase bouquets along with potted plants, succulent gardens, tulip french buckets, and wreaths. Jeanne also conducts floral design workshops and parties throughout the San Francisco Bay Area. Steve Linton Custom Home Builder Steve Linton is the President of Deltec Homes, a custom home building company in Asheville, North Carolina. With nearly 20 years of experience, he oversees all home building projects for Deltec Homes. He specializes in hurricane-resistant homes, green home design, and sustainable building. Steve holds a BS in Structural Engineering from Cornell University and is a LEED Accredited Professional. Archie Guerrero Commercial & Residential Painting Specialist Archie Guerrero is a Commercial and Residential Painting Specialist and the Operations Manager for DGP Painting in Austin, Texas. With a decade of experience, Archie specializes in interior and exterior painting and staining, cabinet refinishing, and wallpaper and popcorn removal. DGP Painting offers clients environmentally friendly paint materials and top-of-the-line paint products. DGP Painting has an A+ rating with the BBB and has been in Austin’s “Best of the Best.” Mike Katona DIY Home Improvement Specialist Mike Katona is a DIY Home Improvement Specialist and the Co-founder of ShabbyChicHouse. With experience dating back to the early 2000s, he specializes in building new homes, home design, and decor. Mike has been featured in publications such as Real Homes and MSN Lifestyle. He has also been named one of Feedspot's Top 100 Home Improvement Bloggers. Shawn Fago Master Locksmith Shawn Fago is a Master Locksmith and the Founder of Noble Locksmith, a nationwide locksmith company based in San Diego, California. With over seven years of experience, he provides commercial, residential, and automotive locksmith services to customers. Shawn attended California State University, Fullerton. Adam Paris Audio & Visual Installation Expert Adam Paris is an AV Expert and the Owner of Bat City TV in Austin, Texas. With over five years of professional experience, Adam specializes in installing audio and visual equipment such as TVs and sound systems. Adam received his degree from Austin Community College. Cleanzen Cleaning Services Residential Cleaning Specialists Cleanzen Cleaning Services is an organization consisting of Residential Cleaning Specialists based in Boston, MA. The Cleanzen Cleaning Services Team consists of Residential Cleaning Specialists. With more than six years of experience, they specialize in connecting independent cleaning professionals with those who need help cleaning their houses. All of Cleanzen’s professionals are experienced and licensed and have passed background checks. Jason Williams AV & Security Specialist Jason Williams is an AV & Security Specialist and the Owner of Williams AV & Security. With more than 35 years of experience, he specializes in home automation and home theater system installations. Jason is an AVIXA Certified Technology Specialist, a CEDIA Certified Cabling & Infrastructure Technician, a Pakedge Certified Network Administrator, and holds a Georgia Low Voltage Unrestricted License. Mantas Silvanavicius Licensed Electrician Mantas Silvanavicius is a Licensed Electrician and the Owner of M+S Electric based in Las Vegas, Nevada. With more than 20 years of experience, he specializes in home electrical installations, testing, and wiring. Mantas and his team have completed projects for companies such as Seiko and Springhill Suites by Marriott. M+S Electric is licensed, bonded, and insured. Alexis Lombardo Professional Organizer Alexis Lombardo is a professional organizer based in Princeton, NJ. With over 3 years of experience and a lifelong passion for organizing, Alexis opened her organizing business, Sort & Sweet Organizing by Alexis LLC, in 2023. She specializes in helping clients with organizing a variety of spaces and offers moving, packing, and unpacking services. Sort & Sweet was named one of the best organizers in Best of NJ 2025. Alexis is also the in-home organizer for The Container Store in Princeton and teaches classes at two adult schools on how to get organized the easy way. She has a degree from the University of Colorado Boulder and previously had a 10-year career on Wall Street. Kathryn Welsh Interior Designer Kathryn Welsh is an Interior Designer and the Co-Founder of Design Inside, an interior design firm in Chicago, Illinois. With over 15 years of experience, Kathryn specializes in designing, remodeling, and decorating spaces. Kathryn holds a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology from the University of Michigan and a Bachelor’s degree in Interior Design from the Harrington College of Design. Kathryn uses her background in Psychology and Interior Design to ensure her design spaces are unique, beautiful, and functional. Rachel Guffey Plant Specialist Rachel Guffey is a Plant Specialist and the Owner of Jungle House, a house plant shop based in Lawrence, Kansas. She specializes in plant education and caring for indoor plants. Rachel is passionate about using plants to help combat seasonal depression. She aims to make plants feel more accessible and approachable to everyone. Rachel has owned over 500 plants at one time. Ez's Painting LLC Painting Professionals Ez's Painting LLC is a team of Painting Professionals based in Olympia, Washington. With more than twelve years of experience, the EZ's Painting team specializes in both commercial and residential painting projects. Ez's Painting LLC holds a contractor license in the state of Washington. Luke Lewis Pest Management Expert Luke Lewis is a Pest Management Expert and the Founder and President of Native Pest Management. Luke has led his company for over 7 years and specializes in pet-friendly and eco-friendly pest control, termite control, and lawn care. Native Pest Management was named as one of Inc. Magazine’s 5000 fastest growing companies in America. Luke holds both BS and MS degrees from the University of Florida and is a graduate of UF's Pest Management University. Guy Gabay Solar Energy Contractor Guy Gabay is a Solar Energy Contractor and the CEO of AmeriGreen Builders, a full-service solar energy, roofing, HVAC and window installation company based in the greater Los Angeles, California region. With over eight years of experience in the construction industry, Guy leads the AmeriGreen team focusing on bringing an educational approach to energy efficient home upgrades. Guy holds a B.S. in Marketing from California State University - Northridge. Kevin Schlosser Home Improvement Specialist Kevin Schlosser is a Home Improvement Specialist and the Owner of Home Tech Handyman Ltd. With over 20 years of experience, Kevin specializes in age-in-place installations, flooring, roofing, and general remodeling handyman services. Kevin holds a blend of construction and in-home technology-related certifications including NAHB Certified Age-in-Place Specialist, CEDIA membership and certifications, and a Certification from the Association of Certified Handyman Professionals. Also, he is in training to receive certifications in Construction, Project Management, and other CEDIA qualified system integrator certifications. He is fully-insured in the state of Colorado. Andre Kazimierski Painting Specialist Andre Kazimierski is a Painting Specialist and the Founder and CEO of Improovy, an on-demand house painting service startup. With more than 15 years of experience, Andre and the Improovy team use data and technology to streamline the home improvement process for homeowners and painting contractors. Andre started in the painting industry as a sophomore at Depaul University in Chicago, working with one of the nation’s largest painting companies to launch new cities and territories across the Midwest. Years later, he started 3rd Gen Painting and Remodeling and had a successful exit after growing the company to two different states. Greg Jeiranyan Licensed Plumber Greg Jeiranyan is a Licensed Plumber based in Los Angeles, California. With over 10 years of professional experience, Greg and his team specialize in residential and commercial plumbing service calls. His company, Plumbing Geeks, is rated 5 stars on Yelp and is a family-owned and operated plumbing company. Plumbing Geeks has been serving Los Angeles and its surrounding areas since 2021. Mitchell Couch DIY Expert Mitchell Couch is a DIY Expert based in Central CA. Mitchell’s specialties include home repair, furniture upcycling, woodworking, and more. Known as GoodlyEarth on social media, he boasts nearly 700k followers on TikTok where he shares a variety of DIY and home projects with helpful advice. Some of his larger projects include a DIY swimming pool and a drive-in movie theater. His projects have been featured in the New York Post, Hometalk, LADbible and CBS News. Mitchell is also a full-time building inspector for the city of Corcoran. Juli Roland Certified Color Specialist Juli Roland is a Color Specialist and the Founder of PaintColorHelp.com, one of the first companies in Dallas, Texas metro area that provides in-home color consultations and helps clients create paint color schemes. Juli has over 15 years of commercial and residential color consulting experience, including seven years as a custom-matcher in the paint industry. She earned her certification in color strategy from Camp Chroma and is a member of the Inter-Society Color Council. She has a BA in Advertising from Texas Tech University. Crystal Chadwick Licensed General Contractor Crystal Chadwick is a Licensed General Contractor and the Owner of Yin & Yang Construction out of Salt Lake City, Utah. With over 16 years of experience in the construction industry, she specializes in remodels, repairs, and handyman services. Crystal leads her team with vision and a detail-oriented approach, allowing them to provide quality work and design to their clients. Emily Fazio Home Improvement & DIY Specialist Emily Fazio is a Home Improvement and DIY Specialist, as well as the editorial director for HomeLivingHandbook.com. She has been an influential writer for 15 years, focusing on do-it-yourself projects, interior design, and home maintenance. Emily develops content for Discovery, including HGTV.com and DIYNetwork.com, and has also collaborated with other influential interior design and homesteading websites. Her partnerships include companies such as Legrand, Sherwin-Williams, Stihl, and Kohler. Emily studied at St. Bonaventure University. Wilson Christner Pest Management Professional Wilson Christner is a Pest Management Professional and Co-Owner of Whitmore Pest & Wildlife Control. With over 14 years of experience, Wilson offers comprehensive services to address immediate pest issues, while also providing valuable recommendations and solutions for habitat improvements and exclusion techniques, particularly for wildlife and rodent-related problems. Wilson holds a wood-destroying organism, outdoor vertebrate, and residential/commercial pest control Qualified Supervisor certification from the Colorado Department of Agriculture. Wilson is also a red card certified wildland firefighter and was honored as the firefighter of the year in 2017. Sara Bendrick Landscape Contractor Sara Bendrick is a Landscape Contractor based in San Diego, California. She works as a designer, licensed contractor, and television host for the HGTV and Discovery+ networks. Sara combines her landscape contracting business, love of plants, and DIY attitude to create content that educates and inspires others. In 2012, she founded her company, Sarita Landscapes, one of San Diego's premier landscape design and build companies. From her socials to her book to her television shows she balances joy, health, and environmentally-conscious decision making to encourage people to deepen their relationship with nature. In San Diego, outdoor spaces are an extension of people’s homes, and Sarita Landscapes intentionally designs and creates environments that their clients will enjoy for years to come. Sara uses her platforms to shift people’s mindset about and engagement with outdoor space from supplemental to essential. Ryan Owsiany Drywall & Painting Specialist Ryan Owsiany is a Drywall and Painting Specialist and the Owner of Patch and Paint Pros in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania. With over two decades of experience, Ryan specializes in interior and exterior house painting as well as drywall, plaster, and water damage repair. Ryan holds a BS in Industrial Engineering from Penn State University. Patch and Paint Pros only employ experienced, friendly painters that understand proper preparation is required to ensure client satisfaction on every painting project. Matt Daly Landscape Designer Matt Daly is a Landscape Designer and the Founder of Water & Earth Landscape Design, which is based in both Richmond, Virginia, and San Jose, California. With nearly 10 years of experience, he specializes in designing outdoor living spaces, including patios, pools, and fireplaces. Matt also runs a blog where he educates homeowners about landscaping topics: https://www.liveinyourbackyard.com/. He earned his Landscape Design & Horticulture Certification from The University of Richmond, where he also studied Sustainable Landscape Practices. Dario Ragnolo House Cleaning Professional Dario Ragnolo is the Owner and Founder of Tidy Town Cleaning, a home cleaning service in Los Angeles, California. His business specializes in residential & commercial cleaning. He is a second generation home cleaning expert, who grew up around his parents cleaning business in Italy. Clark Hill Plant Specialist & VP of Operations, Platt Hill Nursery Clark Hill is a Plant Specialist and the Vice President of Operations at Platt Hill Nursery, a garden center and nursery based in the Chicagoland area of Illinois. Clark and the Platt Hill Nursery plant experts are committed to educating others about plants and providing advice to plant owners. Platt Hill Nursery aims to make gardening an easy and sustainable activity for everybody. Ray Lawrence Locksmith Ray Lawrence is a Locksmith and the Owner of NorCal Locksmith in the Placer County, California area. With over 20 years of experience, he specializes in residential, commercial, and safe locksmithing services. He holds a bachelor’s degree in International Economics from the University of California-Chico. Jovace Nelson Landscaping Expert Jovace Nelson is a Landscaping Expert and the CEO of Vacetime, based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Vacetime, launched in 2018, is an agricultural building management service. Jovace and his team specialize in creating custom landscaping makeover services for both residential and commercial properties, living walls, and environmental education. Jovace studied Business and Management at Penn State University. Schannon Yodice Tile Installation and Design Expert Schannon Yodice is a Tile Installation and Design Expert based in League City, Texas. She is the Founder of Online Tile Academy, an online video platform designed to educate designers, contractors, and the general public on the proper use, installation, and building of tile installation. With over 242K followers on her Instagram, thattilechick, Schannon is known for sharing DIY projects and tips for various tile installation projects. Keith Bartolomei Professional Organizer & Certified KonMari Consultant Keith Bartolomei is a Professional Organizer who runs his own consulting business called Zen Habitat based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Keith is a member of the National Association of Productivity and Organizing Professionals (NAPO), and is a Certified KonMari Consultant. He has over six years of organizational experience and has been trained in the art of tidying, including being trained by author of The Life Changing Magic of Tidying Up, Marie Kondo, and her team. He has been voted as one of the Best Home Organizers in San Francisco by Expertise in 2018 and 2019. Richard Taylor Electrician Richard Taylor is an Electrician and Owner of R H Taylor Electrical Services based in Vero Beach, Florida. Richard has over 35 years of professional experience. He and his team offer electrical installation, re-wiring, and repair services. Robert Anderson Horticulture & Gardening Expert Robert Anderson is a Horticulture & Gardening Expert based in Lexington, Kentucky. He worked as a Professor of Horticulture at the University of Kentucky for 31 years. In addition to his teaching duties, he worked on growing flower varietals and vegetables in greenhouses, and conducted university research projects. His specialties include cut flowers, bedding plants, and hydroponics. He managed the houseplant collection and completed many field trials of garden flowers at Kentucky. He received a B.S. in Biology and an M.S. in Horticulture from the University of Minnesota, and a Ph.D. in Botany from the University of Florida. Norman Raverty Professional Handyman Norman Raverty is the owner of San Mateo Handyman, a handyman service in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 27 years of experience, Norman has expertise in all five of the general building trades (carpentry, ceramic tile, drywall, electrical, plumbing). Nick Yahoodain General Contractor Nick Yahoodain is a General Contractor and the CEO of Advanced Builders & Contractors in Los Angeles, California. With over 16 years of experience, Nick specializes in large residential projects such as new construction, developments, major renovations, additions, and hillside construction. Advanced Builders & Contractors is a member of the BBB, is licensed by the Contractors State License Board, and is fully bonded and insured. Advanced Builders & Contractors has been featured on NBC News, Elle Decor, Architectural Digest, and Voyage LA. Emma Oberlander Interior Designer Emma Oberlander is an Interior Designer and the Owner of Otis Street Design in Boston, Massachusetts. She specializes in residential remodels, boutique hospitality design, project management, and budget design. Emma holds a BA in Communication and Media Studies from Northeastern University and an MA in Interior Architecture from The New England School of Art and Design. She has a combined ten years of project management experience in the design, marketing, and non-profit industries, both nationally and internationally. Frank Boss Electrician Frank Boss is an Electrician and the Owner of AArdvark Electric Service based in Chicago, IL. With over 25 years of experience, he specializes in all forms of lighting installation including recessed lighting, under-cabinet lighting, and security and flood lights. He also has experience in all forms of residential and commercial electrical services including troubleshooting, correcting code violations, service upgrades, and ceiling fan installation. Oz Tzalalihin Landscaping and Hardscaping Expert Oz Tzalalihin is a Landscaping and Hardscaping Expert based in Calabasas, California. He runs Sundream Builders, where he manages quality control as their Project Coordinator. Sundream specializes in installing pools, and conducting hardscaping, landscaping & hillside design projects. Previously, Oz served as Project Manager for Vitoli Builders. He has a passion for working with sloped terrains and has shared his expertise through contributions to local publications. Oz holds a PMP (Project Management Professional) degree from Cornell University and specializes in building pools and structures on hillside properties. With his education and experience, he is a valuable asset and is dedicated to delivering quality results and smooth construction. Mike Holmes Jr. General Contractor and Carpenter Mike Holmes Jr. is a licensed general contractor, carpenter, and TV personality based in Canada. Mike first started working in construction with his father at 14 and quickly discovered his passion for the skilled trades. He first got his contractor license and then his carpentry license from George Brown College. In addition, he has extensive experience filming home improvement shows with his family, including co-hosting Mike’s Ultimate Garage with his father, Mike Sr., and also working as a crew member on Holmes in New Orleans, Holmes Inspection, Holmes Makes it Right, and Holmes and Holmes. Mike is passionate about carpentry and woodworking, sharing this passion and educating the next generation through his work with Skills Canada, SkillsUSA, World Skills, Conestoga College, and more. GreatBuildz Contractor Matching Service GreatBuildz is a free service that matches homeowners with reliable, pre-screened general contractors. GreatBuildz was founded by a team of real estate and construction experts who believe everyone deserves to find a great contractor, have a stress-free renovation, and enjoy their beautiful new space. GreatBuildz connects homeowners with reputable contractors who passed their rigorous screening process and signed their code of conduct. GreatBuildz also individually selects contractors for the specific project and provides ongoing support to ensure everything goes smoothly. Andi Xoch Plant Specialist Andi Xoch is a Plant Specialist and the Owner of Latinx with Plants, a plant shop and resource based in Los Angeles, California. With over a decade of experience in the plant and garden industry, she specializes in plant maintenance, growth, and education. Andi has grown her business from a pop-up shop at home to two brick-and-mortar plant shops. She aims to share how to use plants as a healing tool. William & Shannon Latil Furniture Refinishing & Home Remodeling Specialists William & Shannon Latil are Furniture Refinishing & Home Remodeling Specialists and the Founders of Furniture Refinishing Services based in Houston, Texas. With over 30 years of experience, William and Shannon specialize in repairing and restoring wood furniture, refinishing kitchen cabinets, remodeling kitchens, and building live-edge wooden tables. William and Shannon have won Awards for Excellence from the Better Business Bureau and the Houston Chronicle Best Small Business Award. Their work has also been featured in Houston Press Magazine - Kitchen Design. Additionally, the Furniture Refinishing Services team has conducted major refinishing work on venues such as NRG Stadium and Minute Maid Park. Young Kim Tailor Young Kim is a Tailor based in Livonia, Michigan. She has been working in the sewing and clothing alteration industry since 1989. After opening her own dry cleaning business, Young discovered her passion for sewing, turning her prowess at tailoring and alterations into a new career. Her high attention to detail, creative visualization skills, and quick ability to pick up technical processes have earned her countless happy clients over the past 35 years. In particular, she specializes in working with special occasion formalwear (wedding dresses, suits, etc.), repairing and mending garments, resizing and redesigning looks, and completing custom fittings. She opened her latest business, Tailoring by Young in 2022. Mark Leahy Plant Specialist Mark Leahy is a Plant Specialist based in the San Francisco Bay Area. He is the Co-Owner of Bella Fiora, a custom design floral studio, and SF Plants, a plant shop and nursery. Mark specializes in floral artistry and indoor plants including floral arrangements, terrace planters, office plantscapes, and living walls. Mark and his business partner have been featured in Vogue, The Knot, Today’s Bride, Wedding Wire, Modern Luxury, San Francisco Bride Magazine, San Francisco Fall Antique Show, Black Bride, Best of the Bay Area A-List, and Borrowed & Blue. Cindy Hofen Professional Organizer & Home Staging Specialist Cindy Hofen is a Certified Relocation Specialist based in Mountain View, California. She founded WellRive in 2009, a San Francisco Bay Area-based professional move management company specializing in start-to-finish moving solutions, home clearouts, estate sales, and home staging. She has now retired, after helping over 2,500 clients to simplify their transitions. Cindy has over 15 years of professional moving and organizing experience, is a member of the National Association of Senior Move Managers (NASMM), holds an A+ Accreditation, and belongs to the Diamond Society. She has a Master of Business Administration from Arizona State University and a BA in Business Economics from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Abraham Schwartz Handyman Abraham Schwartz is a handyman and the owner of Fixin’ To Do, a home improvement service in Austin, Texas. Abraham specializes in both small to medium residential and commercial sized jobs, ranging from TV mounting to furniture assembly to home automation setup. Prior to starting Fixin’ To Do, Abraham worked for over 10 years as a handyman for third party services and had a lifetime of learning how to improve houses. He holds both his TSBPE Plumbing Examiners and Electrical Apprentice (TX) Licenses. In 2018 and 2019, Fixin’ To do was rated as a Top Pro by Thumbtack. Tyler Radford Plant Specialist Tyler Radford is a Plant Specialist at Hollie’s Farm & Garden in Tampa, Florida. With over nine years of experience, Tyler specializes in gardening, planting, mulching, and potting. Hollie’s Farm & Garden is a full-service landscape nursery offering landscape supplies including trees, shrubs, mulch, and flagstone. Matt Mimnagh Master Carpenter Matt Mimnagh is a Master Carpenter and Owner of Castleguard Home Services based in Charlotte, North Caroline. Castleguard specializes in finish carpentry including the installation of moulding, trim, and built-in cabinetry. They also offer kitchen, bathroom, and other remodeling services. Asia Denson General Contractor and Construction Professional Asia Denson is a general contractor and construction professional based in Detroit, Michigan. With over 10 years of experience, Asia is the founder and CEO of Denson Construction Services, specializing in crafting innovative, impactful construction solutions with an emphasis on energy-efficiency. She works with clients on a variety of projects across Detroit, including renovating historic property, developing affordable housing, and cutting-edge container homes. Asia has previous experience as a civil engineer inspector and a heavy highway engineer for the Michigan Department of Transportation. She has a bachelor’s in Industrial Technology from Jackson State University and a Master’s in Construction Management from Eastern Michigan University. Kevin Turner Commercial Handyman Kevin Turner is a handyman and the owner of Red Gator Maintenance, a handyman business based in Fresno, California. Working on handyman-related projects since the age of 12, Kevin specializes in a wide variety of home improvement projects such as (but not limited to) lighting/electrical, plumbing, deck staining, drywall repairs, cabinet installation, air conditioning, trash removal, and window, roof, and appliance repairs. Ben Barlow Window Cleaning Specialist Ben Barlow is a Window Cleaning Specialist and the Owner of Barlow Window Bros based in Provo, Utah. With over six years of industry experience, Ben specializes in window and gutter cleaning, power washing, and Christmas light installation. He received his degree from Brigham Young University. Varga Gulshani Residential Painting Specialist Varga Gulshani is a Residential Painting Specialist and the Owner of Elegant Painting based in Washington. With more than 16 years of experience, Varga and his team specialize in residential interior painting, exterior painting, and cabinet painting. Varga and the Elegant Painting team have all received background and verification checks. Reese Baloutine (she/her) Eco-Friendly Landscape Designer Reese Baloutine is an Eco-Friendly Landscape Designer and the Owner of Seedlings Gardening in Austin, Texas. With over 13 years of professional experience, Reese specializes in custom-designed landscapes for residences, focusing on both the aesthetic and environmental impacts of the project. She received her Master of Architecture from Texas Tech University where she graduated with honors. Jeremy Yamaguchi Lawn Care Specialist Jeremy Yamaguchi is a Lawn Care Specialist and the Founder/CEO of Lawn Love, a digital marketplace for lawn care and gardening services. Jeremy provides instant satellite quotes and can coordinate service from a smartphone or web browser. The company has raised funding from notable investors like Y Combinator, Joe Montana, Alexis Ohanian, Barbara Corcoran and others. James Mansfield Construction & Design Specialist James Mansfield is a Construction and Design Specialist and the CEO of WestVillage General Contracting, a high-end and luxury design/build firm in New York City. James specializes in apartment, bathroom, and kitchen remodeling as well as fine cabinetry, lighting, paint, and wallpaper. James has developed a proprietary system of construction called the Luxury Build Method that hinges on a skilled team, respected partnerships, and clear, transparent communication. WestVillage GC has completed more than 500 commercial and residential projects in New York with designers such as David Scott Interiors and Fox Nahem, Kelly Behun. WestVillage GC is also a preferred contractor for Related buildings including Hudson Yards. Rob Calame Training Manager at Barnett Plumbing & Water Heaters Rob Calame is a Training Manager at Barnett Plumbing & Water Heaters, based in Livermore, California, and the Lead Instructor of their Water Heater Training Program. Founded in 2005, Barnett Plumbing & Water Heaters specializes in servicing and installing all water heater types including tank, tankless, and heat pump water heaters throughout the Bay Area. Kevin Snow Commercial Painting Professional Kevin Snow is a Commercial Painting Professional and the Owner of Ridge Painting Company. With over 12 years of experience, he specializes in painting commercial facilities and new build constructions. Kevin and his team are fully licensed and insured. Kris Jensen Principal, Regenerative Communities Collective Kris Jensen is the Principal of Regenerative Communities Collective, a design consultancy focusing on regenerative design, and the Founder and Executive Director of Gardensmiths, a community centered initiative focused on the connection between regenerative gardens and resilient people, Previously, he was the Executive Director of the San Bruno Mountain Watch in California. He has working in the environmental activism field for over 12 years. Perryn Olson Construction Specialist Perryn Olson is a Construction Specialist and the VP of Marketing for REX Construction Services, REX Engineering Group, and REX Technology Solutions. He holds a BA in Visual Arts from Loyola University New Orleans and is a Certified Marketer with the Society of Marketing Professional Services and the Construction Marketing Association. Anjie Cho Feng Shui Educator Anjie Cho is a feng shui educator and licensed architect based in New York City, New York. With over 15 years of feng shui experience, Anjie is the co-founder of Mindful Design Feng Shui School and specializes in teaching feng shui and training practitioners and consultants. Mindful Design Feng Shui School offers a live 100-hour 6-month online feng shui certification program, along with standalone online courses and workshops. She also creates educational content through her podcast Holistic Spaces, social media, and a blog. Anjie is also the author of three books: Holistic Spaces, Mindful Homes, and the co-author of Mindful Living. Anjie completed the 3-year BTB Feng Shui Masters Training Program in 2013 and has since worked with thousands of clients to help harmonize their spaces through feng shui. Barbara Metzel Professional Organizer and Founder of Professional Organizing Plus Barbara Metzel is a professional organizer in Phoenix, AZ, and the Founder of Professional Organizing Plus (POP), a leading home organizing company. Born and raised in Milan, Italy, Barbara brings a European flair to her work, blending function with style and beauty. She has completed thousands of hours of organizing projects and specializes in home organizing, decluttering, unpacking, home management, and commercial organizing. Barbara is a proud member of the National Association of Productivity & Organizing Professionals (NAPO), and her expertise has been featured in The Spruce, Homes & Gardens, VoyagePhoenix, and more. Francesca Ortega Cleaning & Organization Expert Francesca Ortega is a Cleaning & Organization Expert and the Co-Founder of Excellence Cleaning Pros based in Santa Clarita, California. With more than six years of experience, she specializes in organizing and thorough cleanings of residential spaces. Excellence Cleaning Pros has also been featured in "This is LA" as one of the best local cleaning companies. Francesca and her team are extensively trained and insured. Lauren Adams and Jeremy Baker Licensed Architect & Licensed General Contractor Lauren Adams and Jeremy Baker are the Co-Founders of Letter Four, a full-service Design-Build firm in Los Angeles, California. With over 45 years of academic and professional experience between them, they prioritize building close relationships with clients to find practical and imaginative solutions to bring design ideas to life. Lauren leads Letter Four's Architectural Design team. She earned her Bachelor of Architecture from Cornell University and was the recipient of an award for exceptional merit for her thesis. Jeremy leads Letter Four’s General Contracting team and is an expert in the construction of commercial, hospitality, retail, and residential projects. Martin Hennum Licensed Electrical Contractor Martin Hennum is a Licensed Electrical Contractor and Owner of Peach Electric based in Sacramento, California. With over 10 years of experience, Martin and his team specialize in residential and commercial electrical work. They are knowledgeable about new technologies that help clients with future proofing so they save time and money. Martin is passionate about customer service, bringing the best information to clients, and prioritizing safety across projects. Courtney Jacobs Cleaning Specialist Courtney Jacobs is a cleaning expert based in Las Vegas, Nevada. She specializes in mastering easily forgotten and challenging "how to" cleaning projects. Through her Instagram page, @courtjacobs.home, she instructs over 116K followers on how to tackle challenging yet rewarding cleaning projects. Courtney makes cleaning tutorials accessible, effective, and fun. She also has a passion for finding the best tools and products on the market to make cleaning effective. She also is an expert at formulating DIY cleaners that anyone can make at home. She designs cleaning challenges, and provides step-by-step guides for her audience with themes like the “30 Day Declutter Challenge”, or “30 Days of Deep Cleans”. She shares her guides, hacks, cleaning tips, and more on her Substack as well. Melinda Meservy Plant Specialist Melinda Meservy is a Plant Specialist and the Owner of Thyme and Places, a botanical boutique offering plants and gifts in Salt Lake City, Utah. Before starting her own business, Melinda worked in process and business improvement and data analytics. Melinda earned a BA in History from the University of Utah, is trained in lean and agile methodologies, and completed her Certified Professional Facilitator certification. Thyme and Places offered indoor plants and containers, a fully stocked potting bench, and tips on plants to suit your space and lifestyle. Thyme and Places closed in 2024. Lydia Patubo Horticulturist Lydia Patubo is the Manager at Flowercraft Garden Center in San Francisco, California. She studied Environmental Horticulture at the City College of San Francisco and has over 10 years of experience with Environmental Horticulture. Maggie Moran Home & Garden Specialist Maggie Moran is a Professional Gardener in Pennsylvania. Willy De Castro Stone & Tile Care Specialist Willy De Castro has been the owner of Specialized Floor Care Services since 2001. He has over 18 years of experience working with marble, granite, limestone, and travertine, providing services including cleaning, sealing, repair, polishing, refinishing, and installation. In addition to a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Roger Williams University, he holds a Stone, Masonry and Ceramic Tile Cleaning Technician Certification from the Institute of Inspection Cleaning and Restoration Certification. He has also received specialized training in Tile and Stone Care Systems from StoneTech Professional. National Landlord Association Landlord Management Resource The National Landlord Association (NLA) represents self-managing landlords across the United States and provides material for learning more about the industry. The NLA partners with organizations such as Rentler, TenantCloud, the Texas Landlord Association, TurboTenant, and Avail to provide resources such as articles explaining rental laws and up-to-date industry news. Keith Souza Home Improvement Specialist Keith Souza is a Home Improvement Specialist and the Owner of Vaulted Hammer Handyman Services. He specializes in home repair, home automation, and yard maintenance. Keith holds an AAS in Electronics Technology from Heald College. Mary Goldsmith Gardening Expert Mary Goldsmith is a gardening expert based in Raleigh, North Carolina. Mary has over 30 years of experience as a personal and professional gardener. She specializes in helping local home and business owners start thriving edible gardens, but also has experience in landscape design, living roofs, and botanical gardening. In addition to her boutique gardening business, PlantWell, Mary is a senior consultant a the JC Raulston Arboretum in Raleigh, helping choose new plants for each season. Mary holds a BS in Horticulture from North Carolina State University where she concentrated in Urban Horticulture. Katie Gohmann Professional Gardener Katherine Gohmann is a Professional Gardener in Texas. She has been a home gardener and professional gardener since 2008. Lauren Kurtz Professional Gardener Lauren Kurtz is a Naturalist and Horticultural Specialist. Lauren has worked for Aurora, Colorado managing the Water-Wise Garden at Aurora Municipal Center for the Water Conservation Department. She earned a BA in Environmental and Sustainability Studies from Western Michigan University in 2014. Ronny Husser Licensed Electrician Ronny Husser is a Licensed Electrician in Maine. He is a certified member of the National Association of Home Inspectors, and he has over 25 years of experience conducting residential home electrical services. Kern Grant Painting Specialist Kern Grant is a professional painter and the Operations Manager for ALG Painting Services, Inc. in New York City, New York. With over 15 years of experience, Kern specializes in interior and exterior painting of commercial, residential, industry, government, educational, and health buildings. Kern has 10 years of experience working as a journeyman for the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades. Now serving as the Operations Manager for ALC Painting Services, Kern utilizes his trade knowledge and experience to supervise residential and commercial painting projects and color consultations. Kern received his Associate's Degree from Kinsborough Community College and studied Civil Engineering Technology at CUNY New York City College of Technology. Larry Smyj Certified Licensed Mold Assessor & Licensed Home Inspector Larry Smyj is a Home Inspector for Aurora Home Inspections, a full-service Northern New Jersey and Southern New York Home Inspection Company. With over 14 years of experience, Larry specializes in mold, indoor air quality, termite, Radon, and Thermal Imaging inspections. Larry is licensed in New Jersey and New York and is also a Certified Master Inspector by the International Association of Certified Home Inspectors (InterNACHI). Appliance Tech Home Appliance Technicians Appliance Tech, founded in 2014, provides professional service and repair on kitchen and laundry appliances to the residents of Upstate South Carolina. The owner, Justin Evatt, is factory trained on major brands of kitchen and laundry appliances, and holds appliance repair technology and EPA-CFC certifications. Appliance Tech stays up to date with the latest trends in major appliance technology, and follows manufacturer guidelines for service and repair to ensure the highest quality of service. Vic Tesolin Woodworker and Furniture Designer Vic Tesolin is a Woodworker and Furniture Designer. Mental Health & Counseling Trudi Griffin, LPC, MS Professional Counselor Trudi Griffin is a Licensed Professional Counselor based in Wisconsin. She specializes in addictions, mental health problems, and trauma recovery. She has worked as a counselor in both community health settings and private practice. She also works as a writer and researcher, with education, experience, and compassion for people informing her research and writing subjects. She received Bachelor’s degrees in Communications and Psychology from the University of Wisconsin, Green Bay. She also earned an MS in Clinical Mental Health Counseling from Marquette University. Klare Heston, LCSW Licensed Social Worker Klare Heston is a Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker based in Cleveland, Ohio. With experience in academic counseling and clinical supervision, Klare received her Master of Social Work from the Virginia Commonwealth University in 1983. She also holds a 2-Year Post-Graduate Certificate from the Gestalt Institute of Cleveland, as well as certification in Family Therapy, Supervision, Mediation, and Trauma Recovery and Treatment (EMDR). Kelli Miller, LCSW, MSW Psychotherapist Kelli Miller is a Psychotherapist based in Los Angeles, California. Kelli specializes in individual and couples therapy focusing on relationships, depression, anxiety, sexuality, communication, parenting, and more. She is the author of “Love Hacks: Simple Solutions to Your Most Common Relationship Issues” which details the top 15 relationship issues and 3 quick solutions to each. She is also the award-winning and best-selling author of “Thriving with ADHD”. Kelli co-hosted an advice show on LA Talk Radio and was a relationship expert for The Examiner. She received her MSW (Masters of Social Work) from the University of Pennsylvania and a BA in Sociology/Health from the University of Florida. Allison Broennimann, PhD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Allison Broennimann is a licensed Clinical Psychologist with a private practice based in the San Francisco Bay Area providing psychotherapy and neuropsychology services. With over a decade of experience, Dr. Broennimann specializes in in-depth psychotherapy to provide solution-focused treatments for anxiety, depression, relationship problems, grief, adjustment problems, traumatic stress, and phase-of-life transitions. And as part of her neuropsychology practice, she integrates depth psychotherapy and cognitive rehabilitation for those recovering after traumatic brain injury. Dr. Broennimann holds a BA in Psychology from the University of California, Santa Cruz, and an MS and Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from Palo Alto University. She is licensed by the California Board of Psychology and is a member of the American Psychological Association. Tasha Rube, LMSW Licensed Master Social Worker Tasha Rube is a Licensed Social Worker based in Kansas City, Kansas. Tasha is affiliated with the Dwight D. Eisenhower VA Medical Center in Leavenworth, Kansas. She received her Masters of Social Work (MSW) from the University of Missouri in 2014. Liana Georgoulis, PsyD Licensed Psychologist Dr. Liana Georgoulis is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist based in Los Angeles, California. She is the founder and clinical director of Coast Psychological Services. With over 12 years of experience, her mission is to provide clients with effective, well-studied, and established treatments that bring about significant improvements in her patients' lives. Her practice provides cognitive behavioral therapy and other evidence-based therapies for adolescents, adults, and couples. Additionally, she provides group therapy for social anxiety, social skills, and assertiveness training. Providing a space where clients feel understood and supported is essential to her work. Dr. Georgoulis also provides clinical supervision to post-doctoral fellows and psychological assistants. She received her PhD in Clinical Psychology from Pepperdine University and a BA in Psychology from the University of California, Los Angeles. Chloe Carmichael, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Chloe Carmichael, PhD is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist who runs a private practice in New York City. With over 12 years of psychological consulting experience, Dr. Chloe specializes in relationship issues, stress management, self-esteem, and career coaching. She has also instructed undergraduate courses at Long Island University and has served as adjunct faculty at the City University of New York. Dr. Chloe completed her PhD in Clinical Psychology at Long Island University in Brooklyn, New York, and her clinical training at Lenox Hill Hospital and Kings County Hospital. She is accredited by the American Psychological Association and is the author of “Nervous Energy: Harness the Power of Your Anxiety” and “Dr. Chloe's 10 Commandments of Dating.” Paul Chernyak, LPC Licensed Professional Counselor Paul Chernyak is a Licensed Professional Counselor in Chicago. He graduated from the American School of Professional Psychology in 2011. Asa Don Brown, PhD, DNCCM, FAAETS Clinical Psychologist Dr. Asa Don Brown is a Clinical Psychologist with over 30 years of experience. He specializes in working with families, children, and couples; while treating a variety of psychological disorders, trauma, and abuse. Dr. Brown has specialized in negotiation and profiling. As a prolific author, Dr. Brown has published four books; contributed to multiple other books; published 500+ articles in professional and popular magazines, journals, and peer-reviewed publications; and has recently published a number of creative and literary works. Dr. Brown earned a BS in Theology and Religion with a minor in Marketing and an MS in Counseling with a specialization in Marriage and Family from The University of Great Falls. He has also received a Master of Liberal Arts from Harvard University. Furthermore, he received a PhD in Psychology with a specialization in Clinical Psychology from Capella University. Rebecca Tenzer, MAT, MA, LCSW, CCTP, CGCS, CCATP, CCFP Clinical Therapist & Adjunct Professor Rebecca Tenzer is the owner and head clinician at Astute Counseling Services, a private counseling practice in Chicago, Illinois. With over 18 years of clinical and educational experience in the field of mental health, Rebecca specializes in the treatment of depression, anxiety, panic, trauma, grief, interpersonal relationships using a combination of Cognitive Behavioral therapy, Psychodynamic therapy, and other evidence-based practices. Rebecca holds a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Sociology and Anthropology from DePauw University, a Master in Teaching (MAT) from Dominican University, and a Master of Social Work (MSW) from the University of Chicago. Rebecca has served as a member of the AmeriCorps and is also a Professor of Psychology at the collegiate level. Rebecca is trained as a Cognitive Behavioral Therapist (CBT), a Certified Clinical Trauma Professional (CCTP), a Certified Grief Counseling Specialist (CGCS), a Clinical Anxiety Treatment Professional (CCATP), and a Certified Compassion Fatigue Professional (CCFP). Rebecca is also a member of the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Society of America and The National Association of Social Workers. Adam Dorsay, PsyD Licensed Psychologist & TEDx Speaker Dr. Adam Dorsay is a licensed psychologist in private practice in San Jose, CA, and the co-creator of Project Reciprocity, an international program at Facebook's Headquarters, and a consultant with Digital Ocean’s Safety Team. He specializes in assisting high-achieving adults with relationship issues, stress reduction, anxiety, and attaining more happiness in their lives. In 2016 he gave a well-watched TEDx talk about men and emotions. Dr. Dorsay has a M.A. in Counseling from Santa Clara University and received his doctorate in Clinical Psychology in 2008. Lauren Urban, LCSW Licensed Psychotherapist Lauren Urban is a licensed psychotherapist and the owner of Psychobabble Therapy based in Brooklyn, New York. With over 16 years of therapy experience, Lauren has worked with children, families, couples, and individuals, providing an anti-oppressive, identity-affirming space. Lauren is also a certified hypnotherapist at Moon & Key Hypnosis and the co-founder of Get Right Wellness Collective. She received her Masters in Social Work from Hunter College in 2006, and specializes in working with the LGBTQIA community and with clients in recovery or considering recovery for drug and alcohol use. Jay Reid, LPCC Licensed Professional Clinical Counselor Jay Reid is a Licensed Professional Clinical Counselor (LPCC) in private practice in San Francisco, CA. He specializes in helping clients who have survived a narcissistic parent or partner. Treatment focuses upon helping clients identify and challenge self-diminishing beliefs as a result of narcissistic abuse. Jay holds a BA in Psychology from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Clinical Psychology from Penn State University. Natalia S. David, PsyD Psychologist Dr. Natalia S. David is a Clinical Psychologist and Sleep Medicine Expert based in Dallas, Texas. She is the founder and lead psychologist of Mind Body Sleep, a clinical sleep consultancy that provides evidence-based psychotherapy services to improve overall physical and mental health well-being. She is dual board-certified as both a Clinical Health Psychologist and Behavioral Sleep Medicine Specialist. Prior to founding Mind Body Sleep, Dr. David was an Assistant Professor in Psychology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and a Psychiatry Consultant at Clements University Hospital and at Zale Lipshy University Hospital. She is a member of the Board of Behavioral Sleep Medicine, the Academy for Integrative Pain Management, and the American Psychological Association’s Division of Health Psychology. In 2017, she received the Baylor Scott & White Research Institute’s Podium Presentation Award and scholarship. She received her PsyD from Alliant International University in 2017 with an emphasis in Health Psychology. William Gardner, PsyD Clinical Psychologist William Gardner, Psy.D. is a Clinical Psychologist in private practice located in San Francisco, CA’s financial district. With over 10 years of clinical experience, Dr. Gardner provides individually tailored psychotherapy for adults using cognitive behavioral techniques, to reduce symptoms and improve overall functioning. Dr. Gardner earned his PsyD from Stanford University in 2009, specializing in evidence-based practices. He then completed a post-doc fellowship at Kaiser Permanente. Supatra Tovar, PsyD, RD Licensed Clinical Psychologist (PSY #31949), Registered Dietitian, & Fitness Expert Dr. Supatra Tovar is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist (PSY #31949), Registered Dietitian, Fitness Expert, and the Owner of Dr. Supatra Tovar and Associates. Dr. Tovar has worked in the fields of health education, clinical dietetics, and psychology. With over 25 years of holistic wellness experience, she practices Holistic Health Psychotherapy. She combines her psychology, diet, and fitness knowledge to help those struggling with depression, weight gain, eating disorders, life transitions, and relationships. Dr. Tovar holds a BA in Environmental Biology from The University of Colorado Boulder, an MS in Nutrition Science from California State University, Los Angeles, and a PsyD in Clinical Health Psychology from Alliant International University, Los Angeles. Lena Dicken, Psy.D Clinical Psychologist Dr. Lena Dicken is a Clinical Psychologist based in Santa Monica, California. With over eight years of experience, Dr. Dicken specializes in therapy for anxiety, depression, life transitions, and relationship difficulties. She utilizes an integrative approach combining Psychodynamic, Cognitive Behavioral, and Mindfulness-based therapies. Dr. Dicken holds a BS in Integrative Medicine from the University of Hawaii at Manoa, an MA in Counseling Psychology from Argosy University Los Angeles, and a Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D) in Clinical Psychology from the Chicago School of Professional Psychology at Westwood. Dr. Dicken’s work has been featured in GOOP, The Chalkboard Magazine, and in numerous other articles and podcasts. She is a licensed psychologist with the state of California. Jin S. Kim, MA Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist Jin Kim is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist based out of Los Angeles, California. Jin specializes in working with LGBTQ individuals, people of color, and those that may have challenges related to reconciling multiple and intersectional identities. Jin received his Masters in Clinical Psychology from Antioch University Los Angeles, with a specialization in LGBT-Affirming Psychology, in 2015. Peggy Rios, PhD Counseling Psychologist Dr. Peggy Rios is a Counseling Psychologist based in Florida. With over 24 years of experience, Dr. Rios works with people struggling with psychological symptoms such as anxiety and depression. She specializes in medical psychology, weaving together behavioral health programs informed by empowerment theory and trauma treatment. Dr. Rios uses integrated, evidence-based models to provide support and therapy for people with life-altering medical conditions. She holds an MS and Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from the University of Maryland. Dr. Rios is a licensed psychologist in the state of Florida. Catherine Boswell, PhD Licensed Psychologist Dr. Catherine Boswell is a Licensed Psychologist and a Co-Founder of Psynergy Psychological Associates, a private therapy practice based in Houston, Texas. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Boswell specializes in treating individuals, groups, couples, and families struggling with trauma, relationships, grief, and chronic pain. She holds a Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from the University of Houston. Dr. Bowell has taught courses to Master’s level students at the University of Houston. She is also an author, speaker, and coach. Alysha Jeney, MA, LMFT Licensed Relationship Therapist Alysha Jeney is a Licensed Relationship Therapist, the Owner of Modern Love Counseling, and the Co-Founder of The Modern Love Box. She specializes in relationship therapy, intimacy building, and existential exploration. Alysha holds a BA in Psychology from The Metropolitan State University of Denver and an MA in Marriage and Family Therapy/Counseling from Regis University. She has been featured in publications such as The Washington Post and The Huffington Post. Tracy Carver, PhD Licensed Psychologist Dr. Tracy Carver is an award-winning Licensed Psychologist based in Austin, Texas. Dr. Carver specializes in counseling for issues related to self-esteem, anxiety, depression, and psychedelic integration. She holds a BS in Psychology from Virginia Commonwealth University, an MA in Educational Psychology, and a Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from The University of Texas at Austin. Dr. Carver also completed an internship in Clinical Psychology through Harvard University Medical School. She was voted one of the Best Mental Health Professionals in Austin for four years in a row by Austin Fit Magazine. Dr. Carver has been featured in Austin Monthly, Austin Woman Magazine, Life in Travis Heights, and KVUE (the Austin affiliate for ABC News). George Sachs, PsyD Licensed Psychologist George Sachs is a Licensed Psychologist and the Owner of Sachs Center based in New York, New York. With over ten years of experience, Dr. Sachs specializes in treating ADD/ADHD and Autism Spectrum Disorders in children, teens, and adults. He holds a BS in Psychology from Emory University. Dr. Sachs earned his Doctorate of Psychology (PsyD) from the Illinois School of Professional Psychology, Chicago. He completed his clinical training in Chicago at Cook County Hospital, Mt. Sinai Hospital, and the Child Study Center. Dr. Sachs completed his internship and postdoctoral work at the Children’s Institute in Los Angeles, where he supervised and trained therapists in Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TFCBT). He has been trained as a Gestalt Therapist and certified by the Gestalt Associates Training Program of Los Angeles. Dr. Sachs is the author of The Adult ADD Solution, Helping the Traumatized Child, and Helping Your Husband with Adult ADD. He has appeared on the Huffington Post, NBC Nightly News, CBS, and WPIX discussing his holistic approach to ADD/ADHD treatment. Donna Novak, Psy.D Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Donna Novak is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist based in Simi Valley, California. With over ten years of experience, Dr. Novak specializes in treating anxiety and relationship and sex concerns. She holds a BA in Psychology from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and a doctoral degree (Psy.D) in Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University-Los Angeles. Dr. Novak uses a differentiation model in treatment that focuses on personal growth by increasing self-awareness, personal motivation, and confidence. Julia Yacoob, PhD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Julia Yacoob is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist practicing in New York City. She specializes in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) for adults coping with a variety of symptoms and life stressors. Dr. Yacoob earned an MS and Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from Rutgers University, and pursued specialized training at Weill Cornell Medical College, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Institute for Behavior Therapy, and Bellevue Hospital Cancer Center. Dr. Yacoob is a member of the American Psychological Association, Women’s Mental Health Consortium, NYC Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Association, and Association for Cognitive and Behavioral Therapies. Kim Chronister, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Kim Chronister is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist. She specializes in helping people struggling with substance abuse, relationship problems, eating disorders, and personality disorders. Dr. Chronister has contributed to and appeared on Access Hollywood, Investigation Discovery, and NBC News. She is the author of “Peak Mindset” and “FitMentality.” She holds an MA in Clinical Psychology and a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) from Alliant International University. Ken Breniman, LCSW, C-IAYT Licensed Clinical Social Worker & Certified Yoga Therapist Ken Breniman is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker, Certified Yoga Therapist and Thanatologist based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Ken has over 15 years experience of providing clinical support and community workshops utilizing a dynamic combination of traditional psychotherapy and yoga therapy. He specializes in eclectic non-denominational yoga guidance, grief therapy, complex trauma recovery and mindful mortal skills development. He has a MSW from Washington University in St. Louis and an MA Certification in Thanatology from Marian University of Fond du Lac. He became certified with the International Association of Yoga Therapists after completing his 500 training hours at Yoga Tree in San Francisco and Ananda Seva Mission in Santa Rosa, CA. Tara Vossenkemper, PhD, LPC Licensed Professional Counselor Dr. Tara Vossenkemper is a Licensed Professional Counselor and the Founder and Managing Director of The Counseling Hub, LLC, a group counseling practice located in Columbia, Missouri. She is also the Founder of and a Business Consultant with Tara Vossenkemper Consulting, LLC, a consulting service for therapy practice owners. With over twelve years of experience, she specializes in using the Gottman Method of relationship therapy with couples on the brink of divorce, who have conflict, or who feel disconnected from one another. Dr. Vossenkemper holds a BA in Psychology from The University of Missouri, Saint Louis, an MA in Counseling from Missouri Baptist University, and a PhD in Counselor Education and Supervision from The University of Missouri, Saint Louis. She has also completed Level 3 training in the Gottman Method Couples Therapy approach and has been formally trained in both the Prepare-Enrich Premarital Couples Counseling approach and the PREP Approach for couples counseling. Kateri Berasi, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Kateri Berasi is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the Founder of The Centered Self, a therapy practice focused on women’s mental health, and Transcendent Self Therapy, a group practice that uses creative therapeutic approaches to support those who feel misunderstood, marginalized, or outside the norm. With nearly 20 years of experience in the mental health field, Dr. Berasi specializes in hormonal and fertility-related concerns, as well as working with creatively inclined individuals navigating identity, emotional depth, and life transitions. She offers individual therapy, couples counseling, group therapy, and Costume Therapy—a unique modality she developed. Dr. Berasi holds a doctorate in Clinical Psychology from Long Island University, a master’s degree from Columbia University, and completed her postdoctoral training at Columbia as well. Leslie Bosch, PhD Developmental Psychologist Dr. Leslie Bosch is a Developmental Psychologist, National Board Certified Health and Wellness Coach, and Owner of Bosch Integrative Wellness. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in providing stress relief coaching services to individuals and groups using a variety of scientifically proven methods for change including motivational interviewing, positive psychology, self-compassion, non-violent communication, social learning theory, and self-determination theory. Dr. Bosch received training from the Andrew Weil Center for Integrative Medicine at the University of Arizona and earned a PhD in Human Development and Family Studies from The University of Arizona. She is also a member of the National Board of Health and Wellness Coaching Association. Dr. Bosch has published many papers and been featured in the media numerous times. Dr. Niall Geoghegan, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Niall Geoghegan is a Clinical Psychologist in Berkeley, CA. He specializes in Coherence Therapy and works with clients on anxiety, depression, anger management, and weight loss among other issues. He received his Doctorate in Clinical Psychology from the Wright Institute in Berkeley, CA. Tala Johartchi, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Tala Johartchi is a Clinical Psychologist based in the Los Angeles, California metro area. With expertise and advanced training in Evidence-Based Practices and therapeutic/behavioral frameworks, Dr. Johartchi specializes in working with individuals, couples, and families experiencing Substance Disorders, Love Addiction and Codependency, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, as well as common co-occurring disorders such as Depression, Anxiety, and Relational/Attachment difficulties. She earned an MA and PsyD in Clinical Psychology from The American School of Professional Psychology at Argosy University, San Francisco. Mary Church, PhD Research & Clinical Psychologist Dr. Mary Church is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist based in Honolulu, Hawaii. With over a decade of clinical experience, she aims to integrate evolution, genetics, and neuroscience within the practice of psychotherapy. Dr. Church holds a BS in Psychology from Eckerd College and an MS and PhD in Experimental Psychology from The University of Memphis. She completed a Post-Doctorate in Clinical Psychology at The University of Hawaii at Manoa. In addition, Dr. Church is a member of the American Evaluation Association and Hawaii-Pacific Evaluation Association. Rebecca Ward, LMFT, SEP, PCC, MA Licensed Therapist Rebecca A. Ward, LMFT, SEP, PCC is the Founder of the Iris Institute, a San Francisco, California-based business focusing on using somatic expertise to teach individuals and groups the skills to deal with dilemmas using interventions, including her own Original Blueprint® method. Ms. Ward specializes in treating stress, anxiety, depression, and trauma. She is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist (LMFT), a Somatic Experiencing® Practitioner (SEP), and a Professional Certified Coach (PCC) accredited by the International Coach Federation (ICF). Rebecca holds an MA in Clinical Mental Health Counseling from Marymount University and an MA in Organizational Leadership from The George Washington University. Sabrina Grover, LMSW Licensed Master Social Worker Sabrina Grover, LMSW is a Licensed Master Social Worker (LMSW) who earned her degree in Advanced Clinical Practice from New York University. Sabrina has experience working in substance abuse recovery centers and schools where she gained experience providing evidence-based treatment to children, adolescents, adults, and families. Sabrina specializes in Dialectical, Narrative, and Cognitive Behavioral Therapies. She has particular expertise in treating clients struggling with grief, complex trauma, interpersonal difficulty, family conflict, anxiety, and depression. She commits to providing a supportive environment for everyone who commits to growth and offering a warm, non-judgmental atmosphere. Ira Israel Licensed Counselor and Psychotherapist Ira Israel is a Licensed Counselor and Psychotherapist who has been in private practice for over 14 years. He specializes in teaching others about happiness and authenticity. Ira teaches sold-out Happiness and Authenticity workshops at Esalen Institute and Kripalu Center and has written over 400 articles on psychology, philosophy, Buddhism, yoga, film, art, music & literature for The Huffington Post, Good Men Project, Mind Body Green, Thrive Global, and Medium. Ira is also the author of How to Survive Your Childhood Now That You’re an Adult: A Path to Authenticity and Awakening. He attended The University of Pennsylvania and has graduate degrees in Psychology, Philosophy, and Religious Studies. Masha Kouzmenko Meditation Coach Masha Kouzmenko is a Meditation Coach and the Co-Founder of Silicon Valley Wellness, a company based in the San Francisco Bay Area that provides holistic health education services such as mindfulness meditation and yoga instruction to businesses. She has over five years of meditation and yoga instruction experience and specializes in guided meditation. She has a BA in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley. Julia Lyubchenko, MS, MA Adult Counselor & Certified Hypnotherapist Julia Lyubchenko is an Adult Counselor and a Hypnotherapist based in Los Angeles, California. Julia opened her practice in 2012, Therapy Under Hypnosis, specializing in resolving emotional and behavioral problems. She has a Certificate in Clinical Hypnosis from the Bosurgi Method School and is certified in Psychodynamic Psychotherapy and Hypnotherapy. She earned an MA in Counseling Psychology and Marriage and Family Therapy from Alliant International University and an MSc in Developmental and Child Psychology from Moscow State University. Marissa Floro, PhD Counseling Psychologist Dr. Marissa Floro, Ph.D. is a Psychologist and Instructor at Stanford University’s Weiland Health Initiative and adjunct faculty at the University of San Francisco. Dr. Floro received her Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from Loyola University Chicago, focusing on the intersections of race, attraction, and gender. Dr. Floro’s continued clinical, teaching, and advocacy work focuses on sexual and gender diversity, racial identity and belonging, and liberation from oppressive systems and structures. Ebony Eubanks, MSW, ACSW, CAMS-II Therapist Ebony Eubanks is a Therapist, and Founder and CEO of Peaceful Living Counseling and Professional Services of Philadelphia, PA and in Hockessin, DE. With over a decade of experience providing counseling and coaching to individuals, couples, and groups, she specializes in depression, anxiety, couples work, life guidance coaching, and anger management. Ebony holds a Master’s in Social Work from Temple University and is a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers. She is a Certified Anger Management Specialist-II, Level II trained Gottman Couples Therapist. and Certified Gestalt Therapist. Ebony also holds additional certifications in Advanced Clinician Training. Susan Pazak, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist & Professional Life Coach Dr. Susan Pazak is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist & Professional Life Coach. With more than 21 years of experience, she specializes in treating adolescents and adults with psychological issues using cognitive behavioral therapy, symptom reduction skills, and behavior modification techniques. She has been featured in numerous media outlets and shows, including “My Strange Addiction". Dr. Pazak holds a BA in Psychology with a minor in Communications from The University of Pittsburgh, an MA in Clinical Psychology from Pepperdine University, and a PhD in Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University. Samantha Fox, MS, LMFT Marriage & Family Therapist Samantha Fox is a Marriage & Family Therapist in private practice in New York, New York. With over a decade of experience, Samantha specializes in relationship, sexuality, identity, and family conflicts. She also advises on life transitions for individuals, couples, and families. She holds both a Master’s degree and a Marriage and Family Therapy License. Samantha is trained in Internal Family Systems (IFS), Accelerated Experiential Dynamic Psychotherapy (AEDP), Emotion Focused Couples Therapy (EFT), and Narrative Therapy. Noel Hunter, Psy.D Clinical Psychologist Dr. Noel Hunter is a Clinical Psychologist based in New York City. She is the director and founder of MindClear Integrative Psychotherapy. She specializes in using a trauma-informed, humanistic approach for treating and advocating for people diagnosed with mental disorders. Dr. Hunter holds a BA in Psychology from the University of South Florida, an MA in Psychology from New York University, and a doctorate in Psychology (Psy.D) from Long Island University. She has been featured in National Geographic, BBC News, CNN, TalkSpace, and Parents magazine. She is also the author of the book Trauma and Madness in Mental Health Services. Soken Graf Certified Meditation Coach Soken Graf is a Meditation Coach, Buddhist Priest, Certified Advanced Rolfer, and a Published Author who runs Bodhi Heart Rolfing and Meditation, a spiritual life coaching business based in New York City, New York. Soken has over 25 years of Buddhist training experience and advises entrepreneurs, business owners, designers, and professionals. He has worked with organizations such as the American Management Association as a consultant for training courses on such topics as Mindful Leadership, Cultivating Awareness, and Understanding Wisdom: The Compassionate Principles of Work-Life Balance. In addition to his work as a priest, Soken has certifications in Advanced Rolfing from the Rolf Institute of Structural Integration, Visceral Manipulation, Craniosacral Therapy, SourcePoint Therapy®, and Cold-Laser Therapy. Tiffany Douglass, MA Founder, Wellness Retreat Recovery Center Tiffany Douglass is the Founder of Wellness Retreat Recovery Center, a JCAHO (Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) accredited drug and alcohol treatment program based in San Jose, California. She is also the Executive Director for Midland Tennessee at JourneyPure. She has over ten years of experience in substance abuse treatment and was appointed a Global Goodwill Ambassador in 2019 for her efforts in residential addiction treatment. Tiffany earned a BA in Psychology from Emory University in 2004 and an MA in Psychology with an emphasis on Organization Behavior and Program Evaluation from Claremont Graduate University in 2006. Jeremy Bartz, PhD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Jeremy Bartz is a Clinical Psychologist in private practice based in Los Angeles, California. Dr. Bartz specializes in treating depression, anxiety, OCD, mind-body syndromes, chronic pain, insomnia, relationship difficulties, attachment trauma, and resolving the effects of narcissistic trauma. He received a Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from Brigham Young University and completed a fellowship In Pain Psychology at Stanford's premier pain management clinic. Anna Elton, PhD, LMFT Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist Anna Elton, PhD, LMFT is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist, Clinical Sexologist, Speaker, and Author based in Florida. With over 15 years of experience, she works with individuals, couples, and families both nationally and internationally. Dr. Elton is an author and the founder of the non-profit “I Care We All Care". She is also the host of Life, Love, Etc., a bi-weekly relationship show reaching over 100,000 viewers per episode. Her clinical work and insights have been featured on PBS, FOX, ABC, and NBC, and she contributes regularly to Psychology Today through her blog Life, Love, Etc. She received a Ph.D in Clinical Sexology from MSTI, a Master’s degree in Marriage and Family Therapy from UMass Boston, and a BS in Psychology from UMass Boston. Elizabeth Weiss, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Elizabeth Weiss is a licensed clinical psychologist in Palo Alto, California. She received her Psy.D. in 2009 at Palo Alto University's PGSP-Stanford PsyD Consortium. She specializes in trauma, grief, and resilience, and helps people reconnect with their full self after difficult and traumatic experiences. Chandler Chang, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Chandler Chang is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist, the Founder & Owner of Golden Hour Therapy and Therapy Lab, and a Clinical Instructor at the University of Southern California. With nearly 20 years of experience, she specializes in providing evidence-based, science-backed treatments to toddlers, children, teens, families, and adults to target specific mental health problems or cultivate mental wellness. Dr. Chang earned a BA from Princeton University and a PhD in Psychology from The University of Georgia. She completed UCLA's pre-doctoral internship and trained at NYU’s Child Study Center and UGA Regents Center for Learning Disorders. Hyungbum Kang, MA, MSW, LCSW, MAC Licensed Clinical Social Worker Hyungbum Kang is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker based in Honolulu, Hawaii. With over a decade of experience, Hyungbum specializes in using an integrated therapeutic approach to treat ADHD, anger management, depression, and other mental health and social work struggles. He received a Bachelor’s degree in English and Master’s degrees in Sociology and Social Work. Hyungbum earned an MBA from Hawaii Pacific University (HPU) and is working on his Doctor of Psychology from HPU. He is a member of the American Psychological Association, the International Honor Society in Psychology, the National Association of Social Workers, and the California Consortium of Addiction Programs and Professionals. Fernando Campos Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist Fernando Campos is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and the Founder of Avant-Garde Therapy in Davie, Florida. Fernando has over 11 years of experience and offers telehealth, individual therapy, couples counseling, teen therapy, and family therapy programs. He has worked as a community educator on the topics of intimate partner abuse and trauma, anger management, family engagement, and counseling within alternative education. He is trained in CBT (cognitive behavioral therapy), Solution Focused Therapy, and BSFT (brief strategic family therapy). Fernando holds a Master’s Degree in Marriage and Family Therapy from Nova Southeastern University. Nancy Lin, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Nancy Lin is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the Owner of Go to Sleep San Diego, a private practice providing therapy for people suffering from insomnia, trauma, depression, and related problems. She is also trained in issues related to cultural diversity in mental health. Dr. Lin holds a Bachelors degree in Psychology from The University of California, Berkeley and a Masters degree in Medical Anthropology from the University of London, SOAS. She earned her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from The University of Massachusetts Boston and completed an APA-accredited internship and postdoctoral training at the VA San Diego Healthcare System (VASDHS). Cameron Gibson, R.C.C. Registered Clinical Counsellor & Men's Mental Health Expert Cameron Gibson is a Registered Clinical Counsellor in Vancouver, British Columbia. Cameron specializes in working with men to support their struggles with anxiety, depression, trauma, OCD, and developmental disabilities. He holds a BA in Psychology from Carleton University and an MA in Counseling Psychology from the City University of Seattle. Cameron is also the Program Director for Manifest Wellness, a men's mental health clinic, where he works to destigmatize mental health support for men and increase access to counseling. Michael Dickerson, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Michael Dickerson is a Clinical Psychologist with over 6 years of experience working in college counseling. He specializes in anxiety, OCD, and men's mental health. Michael holds a BA in Psychology from California State University, Sacramento and a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) from The Wright Institute in Berkeley CA. Omar Ruiz, LMFT Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist Omar Ruiz is a Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist and the Owner of TalkThinkThrive, PLLC. With over 11 years of counseling experience, he specializes in helping couples resolve issues and restore intimacy. He has been featured in numerous publications, including The New York Times, Women’s Health, and WebMD. Omar holds a BS in Psychology from Howard University and an MS in Family Therapy from The University of Massachusetts Boston. Rebecca Kason, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Rebecca Kason is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist licensed in both New York and New Jersey. She specializes in adolescent mental health, dialectical behavior therapy, and cognitive-behavioral therapy. Dr. Kason treats clients struggling with emotional dysregulation, behavioral disorders, interpersonal difficulty, family conflict, anxiety, depression, and phobias. She holds a Bachelor's degree in Psychology from The University of Delaware and a Master's degree in Applied Psychology and a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) in Clinical Psychology from Long Island University. Dr. Kason completed an APA accredited internship at Mount Sinai Services. She is a member of the American Psychological Association and Association for Behavior and Cognitive Therapy. Evan Parks, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Evan Parks is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and an Adjunct Assistant Professor at The Michigan State University College of Human Medicine. With over 25 years of experience, he specializes in helping people manage chronic pain through the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) Approach at Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital. He also has experience working with others on topics ranging from stress management to mental flexibility. Dr. Parks is also the author of Chronic Pain Rehabilitation: Active Pain Management That Helps You Get Back to the Life You Love. Dr.Parks holds a BA in Theology from Cedarville University, an MA in Counseling Psychology from Western Michigan University, and a PsyD in Clinical Psychology from The Forest Institute of Professional Psychology. Lia Huynh, LMFT Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist Lia Huynh is a Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist with over 20 years of experience. She specializes in providing counseling services for individuals, couples, Christians, and Asian Americans. Lia holds a BA in Psychology from The University of California, Los Angeles, and an MS in Marriage and Family Therapy and Pupil Personnel Services from San Francisco State University. John A. Lundin, PsyD Clinical Psychologist John Lundin, Psy. D. is a clinical psychologist with 20 years experience treating mental health issues. Dr. Lundin specializes in treating anxiety and mood issues in people of all ages. He received his Doctorate in Clinical Psychology from the Wright Institute, and he practices in San Francisco and Oakland in California's Bay Area. Jennifer Guttman, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Jennifer Guttman, is a Cognitive Behavioral Therapist, Clinical Psychologist, and the Founder of the Sustainable Life Satisfaction®, a motivational and lifestyle platform. With over 30 years of experience and practice in New York City and Westport, Dr. Guttman specializes in treating people struggling with acute behavioral disorders stemming from anxiety, depression, stress, attention deficit, and phobias. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology from Drew University and a Doctor of Psychology from Long Island University. Dr. Guttman is the author of "A Path To Life Satisfaction Workbook (2018),” a monthly blog contributor to Psychology Today and Thrive Global, and a contributor to articles in major publications, media sites, and podcasts including The Washington Post, Reader's Digest, Redbook, Teen Vogue, Health, mindbodygreen.com, Harvesting Happiness, and Unshakable Self-Confidence. William Schroeder, MA, LPC, NCC Licensed Professional Counselor William Schroeder is a Licensed Professional Counselor and the Co-Owner of Just Mind, a counseling center in Austin, Texas that aims to remove the stigma from therapy. With more than 14 years of experience, he specializes in cognitive counseling with adults on issues such as loss, life transition, happiness, relationships, and career exploration. He has also received advanced training and works with clients with ADHD and Aspergers (ASD). William and Just Mind have been featured in publications such as The New York Times, Business Insider, and Readers Digest. William holds a BBA in Marketing from Loyola University, New Orleans, and an MA in Counseling Psychology from St. Mary’s University. Rachel Eddins, M.Ed., LPC-S Licensed Professional Counselor Rachel Eddins is a Licensed Professional Counselor and the Executive Director of Eddins Counseling Group. With more than 20 years of experience, she specializes in working with clients with eating disorders, anxiety and depression, relationship issues, and career obstacles. Rachel earned a BA in Psychology from The University of Texas at Austin and an MEd in Counseling from The University of Houston. She received a Group Psychotherapist Certification from the American Group Psychotherapy Association and an Intuitive Eating Counselor Certification through Intuitive Eating Pros. She is also recognized as a Master Career Counselor through the National Career Development Association. Steven Hesky, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Steven Hesky is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist with over 37 years of experience. He specializes in long-term psychotherapy with adults and adolescents. His training includes Freudian, Jungian, and Existential approaches to psychotherapy, hypnosis, family therapy, marriage counseling, and biofeedback. Dr. Hesky holds a BA in Philosophy from Lake Forest College and an MA and PhD in Existential Clinical Psychology from Duquesne University. Gera Anderson, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Gera Anderson is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist with more than five years of experience. She specializes in integrated behavioral health, neuropsychological assessment, and pain management, and has worked in community mental health settings, correctional facilities, psychiatric hospitals, and schools. Dr. Anderson received an MEd from The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities and a PsyD in Clinical Psychology from Pepperdine University. Jade Giffin, MA, LCAT, ATR-BC Art Psychotherapist Jade Giffin is an Art Psychotherapist based in New York, New York. She brings over a decade of experience specializing in the treatment of trauma and grief, pre and post-partum and parenting challenges, anxiety and stress management, self-care, and social, emotional, and learning difficulties for adults, teenagers, and children. Jade holds a BA in Psychology and Visual Arts from Barnard College and an MA in Art Therapy from New York University with distinction. She is a Hughes Fellow and Lehman Award recipient for providing outstanding clinical work. Jade's roles also encompass clinical supervisor, therapeutic program developer, published researcher, and presenter. Meredith Brinster, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Meredith Brinster serves as a Pediatric Developmental Psychologist in the Dell Children’s Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics Program and as a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Dell Medical School of The University of Texas at Austin. With over five years of experience, Dr. Brinster specializes in evaluating children and adolescents with developmental, behavioral, and academic concerns, including autism spectrum disorder, developmental delay, intellectual disability, anxiety, attention problems, and learning disabilities. Her current research focuses on early biomarkers of autism spectrum disorder, as well as improving access to care. Dr. Brinster received her BA in Psychological and Brain Sciences from Johns Hopkins University and her doctorate in Educational Psychology from the University of Texas at Austin. She completed her clinical internship in pediatric and child psychology at the University of Miami Medical School and Mailman Center for Child Development. She is a member of the Society for Research in Child Development (SRCD) and the American Psychological Association (APA). Laura Richer Licensed Mental Health Counselor Laura Richer is a Licensed Mental Health Counselor and the Founder of Anchor Light Therapy Collective, a multi-disciplinary mental health counseling clinic in Seattle, Washington. With more than ten years of experience in the mental health sector, she specializes in working with couples and individuals and supporting them in becoming empowered to direct their destiny. Laura holds a BA in English from Western Washington University and an MA in Clinical Mental Health Counseling. She also received her Hypnotherapy Practitioner Training from Bastyr University, Couples Counseling Certification from The Gottman Institute, and Master Life Coach Certification from Seattle Life Coach Training. Laura is the host of the podcast Holding Ground which explores anything and everything in the world of mental health and positive psychology. Salina Shelton, LPC, MA Licensed Professional Counselor Salina Shelton is a Licensed Professional Counselor, specializing in Art Therapy in San Antonio, Texas. She received her MA in Counseling from The University of Texas at San Antonio in 2013 and her Certificate in Expressive Arts Therapy from Prescott College in 2015 Sirvart Mesrobian, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Sirvart Mesrobian is a Clinical Psychologist based in West Los Angeles and Glendale, California. With over nine years of professional and research experience, Dr. Mesrobian specializes in individual, family, and couples treatment for young adults and adults. Dr. Mesrobian provides Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, motivational interviewing, trauma-focused treatments, and other services. She earned a Master's in Psychology and a Doctorate of Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University. Nicole Moshfegh, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Nicole Moshfegh is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and Author based in Los Angeles, California. Dr. Moshfegh specializes in multicultural competence and treating patients with mood and anxiety disorders and insomnia. She holds a BA in Psychology and Social Behavior from The University of California, Irvine (UCI), and an MA and Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) from Pepperdine University. Dr. Moshfegh completed her predoctoral internship and postdoctoral fellowship at The University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).  Additionally, she is a member of the American Psychological Association, National Register of Health Service Psychologists, Los Angeles County Psychological Association, and Collaborative Family Healthcare Association. Dr. Moshfegh is also the best-selling author of "The Book of Sleep: 75 Strategies to Relieve Insomnia". Hilya Tehrani, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Hilya Tehrani is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist with over twenty years of experience. She specializes in working with children and adolescents. Dr. Tehrani also has expertise in supporting individuals with autism, ADHD, anxiety, behavioral challenges, and learning and processing differences. She holds a BA in Psychology from The University of California, Los Angeles, an MA in Clinical Psychology from California State University, Northridge, and a PsyD in Clinical Psychology from Pepperdine University. Raffi Bilek, LCSW-C Licensed Clinical Social Worker Raffi Bilek is a couples counselor and family therapist, and the Director of The Baltimore Therapy Center, LLC. With more than ten years of experience, he specializes in helping individuals, couples, and families save and improve their relationships. He enjoys training other therapists to work with couples through the most difficult situations, including infidelity, divorce, and more. Raffi holds a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from Brown University and a Master's degree in Social Work from The Wurzweiler School of Social Work. Jessica Swenson Community Psychologist & Licensed Clinical Therapist Dr. Jessica Swenson is a Community Psychologist & Licensed Clinical Therapist and the Founder of Transformative Growth Counseling. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in relationships—both romantic and familial. She earned her PhD in Community Psychology from National Louis University and her MS in Clinical Psychology from Roosevelt University. She’s also a Certified Clinical Trauma Professional. Iddo DeVries, MA-SLP Speech-Language Pathologist Iddo DeVries is a Speech-Language Pathologist and the Owner and Clinical Director of Speech Therapy of DV Therapy, Inc. based in Los Angeles, California since 2014. Focusing on dynamic therapy for individuals and their families, Iddo specializes in family training and speech therapy for disabilities and delays including, autism, late-talkers, PDD, specific language impairments, articulation and phonological disorders, auditory processing delays, stuttering, pragmatic and social delays, Verbal Apraxia of Speech. Iddo holds a BS in Speech Communication Sciences from Brooklyn College and an MA in Speech-Language Pathology from Adelphi University. In 2011 Iddo was awarded the outstanding achievement award in the field of speech therapy by the New York City Department of Education. He has been an active member of the nationally accredited speech board ASHA since 2006. Jacob Christenson, PhD, LMFT Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist Dr. Jacob Christenson is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and the CEO of Covenant Family Solutions. With more than 20 years of experience, he specializes in substance abuse issues, parenting, medical family therapy, couples counseling, family therapy, and counseling for treatment-resistant adolescents. Dr. Christenson has also been published in many peer-reviewed journals, including Contemporary Family Therapy: An International Journal and Journal of Marital and Family Therapy. He is an AAMFT Approved Supervisor for the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy (AAMFT) and a Clinical Fellow for the Iowa Association for Marriage and Family Therapy (IAMFT). Dr. Christenson holds a BS in Psychology from California Polytechnic State University, an MS and PhD in Marriage and Family Therapy from Brigham Young University, and an MBA from The University of the People. Philip Glickman, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Philip Glickman is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the Director of Wellness Road Psychology with two locations in Dobbs Ferry and the Financial District of New York City. He specializes in cognitive-behavioral therapy, mindfulness techniques, treatment of anxiety, and life coaching. Dr. Glickman is a member of the American Psychological Association. He holds a BA in Criminology and Psychology from The University of Maryland College Park and an MA in Forensic Psychology from The City University of New York. Dr. Glickman also holds a PsyD in School and Community Psychology from Hofstra University. Carolyn Rubenstein, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Carolyn Rubenstein is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist based in Florida. She specializes in working with adults on anxiety, perfectionism, and burnout. She is also the Chief Wellness Adviser for global esports organization Misfits Gaming Group. Dr. Rubenstein holds a BA in Psychology from Duke University, an MA in Psychology from Harvard University, and a PhD in Counseling Psychology from The University of Miami. She also has a Certification in Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing through the EMDRIA (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing International Association). Josh Spurlock, MA, LPC, CST Licensed Professional Counselor Josh Spurlock is a Licensed Professional Counselor and the Founder and CEO of MyCounselor.Online. With more than 15 years of experience, he specializes in marriage counseling, family counseling, and sex therapy through a Christian counseling lens. Josh holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Biblical Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics and a Master’s in Counseling Psychology from Evangel University. Vernita Marsh, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist, Consultant, & Speaker Dr. Vernita Marsh is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the CEO and Founder of Dr. Vernita Marsh & Associates and The Marsh Clinics®. With over 30 years of clinical psychology experience, she specializes in relationship therapy, grief counseling, family therapy, and intimate partner abuse counseling. Dr. Marsh offers consultation for therapists, coaches, and trainees of mental health. Dr. Marsh earned her PhD in Clinical Psychology from Michigan State University and completed both her postdoctoral and fellowship training at Harvard Medical School. She also has expertise in the area of Telehealth and has received Clinical Telehealth Health Provider Certification from Evergreen. Hector Garcia Harry Potter Content Creator Hector Garcia is a Harry Potter content creator and collector. From loving the movies as a child, to reading the books as a teenager, Hector has been a lifelong fan of Harry Potter and first began posting content on social media back in 2015. Known as @myharrypottercorner online, Hector shares all things Harry Potter and the wizarding world, including his rare, vintage collectors items, travels to Harry Potter world, limited edition memorabilia, Harry Potter news and more. Hector has created a community of over 83k followers and has been featured in the BBC. Natalie Feinblatt, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Dr. Natalie Feinblatt is a Clinical Psychologist with a private practice based in Los Angeles, California. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Feinblatt specializes in helping people with addiction, trauma, and other mental health struggles. She holds a BA in Psychology from The University of California, San Diego, and a Master’s degree and Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) from Pepperdine University. Dr. Feinblatt is licensed in the state of California. Nicole Barile, PhD, NTP Licensed Clinical Psychologist & Nutritional Therapist Dr. Nicole Lippman-Barile is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and a Nutritional Therapy Practitioner (NTP) who practices in New York. As a psychologist, she specializes in treating anxiety and mood disorders, Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), and related compulsive disorders. As a nutritional therapist, Dr. Lippman-Barile specializes in treating blood sugar dysregulation, digestive health, and mood disorders related to food. She holds a PhD in Clinical Psychology from Hofstra University and a Nutritional Therapy Practitioner Certification from the Nutritional Therapy Association. Melissa Matos Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Melissa Matos is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist based in Long Beach, California. With over ten years of experience, she specializes in rehabilitation psychology and helping individuals adapt and thrive while living with a chronic health condition or disability. She has presented nationally on the psychological aspects of living with chronic health conditions including social stigma and concealment in apparent and non-apparent differences. She was also recently featured in Bald Life magazine where she discussed mental health awareness and alopecia areata. She earned her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University, Los Angeles, her MA in Psychology from Chapman University, and her BA in Psychology from California State University-Fullerton. Dr. Matos is a Multiple Sclerosis Certified Specialist and is licensed to practice psychology in California. She is a member of the American Psychological Association and Division 22 Rehabilitation Psychology of the American Psychological Association. She is also listed in the National Register as a Health Service Provider in Psychology. Stefanie Barthmare, M.Ed., LPC Psychotherapist Stefanie Barthmare is a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) with a private practice in Houston, Texas. With two decades of experience, Stefanie specializes in body-based trauma treatment and counseling for relationship issues, parenting and family struggles, depression, anxiety, and grief. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in English from The University of Texas at Austin and a Master’s degree in Counseling Psychology from The University of Houston. Stefanie is also an LPC Associate supervisor and consults as a facilitator for groups in the educational, spiritual, and business communities. Jacqueline House, LMFT-A Marriage and Family Therapist Associate Jacqueline House is a Marriage and Family Therapist Associate. She specializes in using Solution Focused Brief Therapy, Collaborative Therapy, ACT Therapy, and Narrative Therapy to help her patients through problems such as anxiety and life transitions. Jacqueline earned a BA in Philosophy from Texas A&M University and an MS in Marriage and Family Therapy from Our Lady of the Lake University. Joseph Phillips Clinical Therapist, MSW Joseph Phillips, MSW is a Clinical Therapist and Social Worker at Transformative Growth Counseling, which is based in Illinois and Florida. He specializes in relationship and attachment therapy and treats anxiety, depression, trauma, and substance use. He earned a Master of Social Work from Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana, and he completed his clinical internship with Transformative Growth Counseling. Joseph is also certified in disaster and collective trauma counseling. Stephanie Riseley, MFA Certified Hypnotherapist Stephanie Riseley is a Hypnotherapist, Life, and Spiritual Coach based in Los Angeles, California. Stephanie merges neuroscience with spirituality to help people discover their own power and their soul purpose. Certified in Past Life Regression Therapy by the psychiatrist, Brian Weiss, MD, and the Brian Weiss Institute, she also uses Cognitive Behavior Modification and Awareness Therapy to help people heal. With over 30 years of experience, Stephanie conducted research for the DSM III (R), the manual of psychiatric disorders, at UCLA's Neuropsychiatric Institute. She earned a BA from the University of California, Berkeley, and an MFA from the University of California, Los Angeles. Jessica January Behr, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Jessica January Behr is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the Founder and Director of Behr Psychology. She specializes in couples and sex therapy. Additionally, Dr. Behr treats those experiencing anxiety, stress, relationship problems, and depression. She holds a BA in Psychology from Hunter College. Dr. Behr also holds a Masters of Science of Education (MsED) in School Psychology and a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) in Clinical Psychology from Pace University. Mirjam Quinn, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Mirjam Quinn is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist and the Founder of Mirjam Quinn and Associates based in Illinois. With over 13 years of experience, she specializes in using cognitive-behavioral, mindfulness-based, and attachment theory grounded therapy techniques to provide psychological care for the whole person. Dr. Quinn also has a special focus on working with people from diverse and multicultural backgrounds and adoptive and blended families. She earned her PhD in Psychology from Purdue University and completed her internship at Butler University. Dr. Quinn is a member of the American Psychological Association (APA) and the APA Division for Peace Psychology and the Society for Child and Family Policy and Practice. Denise Brady Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist Denise Brady is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist based in Long Beach, CA. With 15 years of experience, she specializes in helping people through generational trauma and uses Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) therapy to assist clients in reprocessing traumatic experiences and memories. Denise is the owner of 'In the Meantime Breathe Family Counseling Services' and offers services in both California and Texas, including virtual and in-person therapy sessions. She also offers workshops, including ‘Embracing Empathy and Validation’ and ‘Preventing Parent Burnout’. Denise has previous experience working with the Department of Children Family Services (DCFS) and her practice is trusted and verified by Therapy for Black Girls and Psychology Today. She received her Masters in Clinical Psychology from Antioch University in Los Angeles. Ashley Smith, PhD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Ashley Smith is a licensed psychologist, co-founder of Peak Mind: The Center for Psychological Strength, speaker, and author of The Way I See It: A Psychologist’s Guide to a Happier Life. She is a sought-after anxiety expert and outspoken advocate dedicated to changing the way we approach mental health and wellbeing. Dr. Ashley is also open about learning to thrive with a rare visual impairment. The combination of her professional expertise and personal experiences put her in a unique position to educate and inspire. She is passionate about helping others live bold, happy lives while performing at their peak. Hilary Jacobs Hendel, LCSW Certified AEDP Psychotherapist & Emotions Educator Hilary Jacobs Hendel is a Certified Accelerated Experiential Dynamic Psychotherapy (AEDP) Psychotherapist and Emotions Educator (Accelerated Experiential Dynamic Psychotherapy based in New York City. With almost 20 years of experience, she specializes in helping people understand emotions and how they affect the mind through The Change Triangle tool. Hilary is also the author of It’s Not Always Depression: Working the Change Triangle to Listen to the Body, Discover Core Emotions, and Connect to Your Authentic Self, which was the winner of the 2018 Best Book Award in the Mental Health/Psychology Category and the 2018 Silver Nautilus Award for Personal Growth (Large Publisher). Hilary has published articles in The New York Times, TIME magazine, Oprah.com, NBC Think, Salon.com, and Fox News. She was also the psychological consultant on AMC’s Mad Men. Hilary is also the co-developer of the Emotions Education 101Turnkey Curriculum. She holds a BA in Biochemistry from Wesleyan University and a Master’s in Social Work from Fordham University. Urmi Patel, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Urmi Patel is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist who began her career in mental health in 2000. She spent the first decade of her career providing direct clinical services to adolescents and adults living with persistent mental illness in outpatient, residential, inpatient, and community college settings before transitioning into more strategic leadership roles. Her leadership positions have included the Deputy Director of Behavioral Health Services for the County of San Diego, the Mental and Behavioral Health Program Lead for Mahmee, Director of Clinical Care for Sutter Health, and Consulting Psychologist for the State of California’s Mental Health Commission. She provides Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, and Dialectical Behavioral Therapy to patients. She specializes in life transitions, interpersonal conflicts, eating disorders, grief/loss, and trauma. Dr. Patel is also a Nationally Certified Trainer of the Recognizing and Responding to Suicide Risk module developed by the American Association of Suicidology. She earned a Master's in Marriage and Family Therapy from the University of Southern California and a Master's and Doctorate in Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University. Kamal Ravikant Author, Love Yourself Like Your Life Depends On It Kamal Ravikant is a bestselling author, podcast host, speaker, and Venture Capitalist. His book Love Yourself Like Your Life Depends On It was a bestseller in the USA. He's had diverse experiences in his life, including meditating with monks in the Himalayas, serving as a US Army Infantry soldier, and cofounding several companies and a Venture Capital firm in Silicon Valley. He is passionate about sharing the common thread through all of these experiences: the importance of loving yourself. Cole Imperi Certified Thanatologist Cole Imperi is a certified Thanatologist and the Founder of the School of American Thanatology based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 17 years of experience, her mission is to help people explore their relationship with death, dying, grief and loss so they can get the most out of life. Cole is a 2-time TedX speaker focusing on shadowloss and resiliency, and is the author of the book A Guide to Grief, for teens and tweens. Cole has been featured on the Netflix series The Future of… and in The Atlantic, The New York Times, Ologies, Marie Claire, USA Today, and more. She also writes the popular column Grief or Madness and consults on bereavement programming for organizations. Michaela Hudson Grief Counselor Michaela Hudson is a licensed Funeral Director-Embalmer Apprentice and Grief Counselor based in Atlanta, Georgia. Michael is the founder and CEO of Gooooood Grief, offering grief counseling and help along the healing journey after losing a loved one. She blends clinical knowledge with deep emotional and spiritual intelligence and is known for her heart-centered approach to healing and aftercare. Her work bridges the gap between death care and emotional restoration, redefining what healing looks like for today’s generation. Michaela currently works at Moss Stovall Neal Funeral Home. Michaela earned a degree in Mortuary Science from Gupton-Jones College of Funeral Service. Nikki Harmon Relationship Therapist Nikki Harmon is a licensed marriage and family therapist based in American Fork, Utah. With over 16 years of experience, she specializes in Emotionally Focused Therapy. She is an EFCT Supervisor, which allows her to teach the model to licensed and pre-licensed therapists, as well as watch tapes of their client work to help them improve. Nikki is the owner of The Family Therapy Clinic, where they specialize in attachment and in healing individuals, couples, and families. She serves on the Northern Utah Emotionally Focused Therapy Board and volunteers her time at trainings. Nikki received her Bachelor's Degree from Brigham Young University and her Master's from COAMFTE-accredited Alliant International University. Kryss Shane, LMSW Licensed Master Social Worker Kryss Shane is a Dual Licensed Social Worker and Teaching Associate at Columbia University in New York, New York. She has over 25 years of experience as a LGBTQ activist and social worker. She received her Masters of Social Work from Barry University in 2010. Jeremiah Kaplan Research & Training Specialist Jeremiah Kaplan is a Research and Training Specialist at the Center for Applied Behavioral Health Policy at Arizona State University. He has extensive knowledge and experience in motivational interviewing. In addition, Jeremiah has worked in the mental health, youth engagement, and trauma-informed care fields. Using his expertise, Jeremiah supervises Arizona State University’s Motivational Interviewing Coding Lab. Jeremiah has also been internationally selected to participate in the Motivational Interviewing International Network of Trainers sponsored Train the Trainer event. Jeremiah holds a BS in Human Services with a concentration in Family and Children from The University of Phoenix. Zamira Pla Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and Embodiment Coach Zamira Pla is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and Embodiment Coach based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 10 years of experience, Zamira is a lifelong learner who is passionate about helping others heal and connect with their true selves through creative and holistic therapy. Zamira started her private practice in 2022, offering individual, couples, and spiritual coaching. She creates workshops and retreats about spirituality, working with your shadow, expressive arts, and accessing our creativity. She also received a 2-year professional degree in Expressive Arts Therapy in 2013, became a certified Sex Therapy Informed Professional in 2023, and is certified in human design and enneagram. Zamira received her master’s degree in marriage and family therapy from Florida International University. Alexandra Solomon, PhD Relationship Therapist Alexandra Solomon, PhD, is a relationship therapist based in Highland Park, Illinois.  Dr. Alexandra is internationally recognized as one of today’s most trusted voices in the world of relationships, and her framework of Relational Self-Awareness has reached millions of people around the globe. A couple's therapist, speaker, author, professor, podcast host, and media personality, Dr. Alexandra is passionate about translating cutting-edge research and clinical wisdom into practical tools people can use to bring awareness, curiosity, and authenticity to their relationships. She is a clinician, educator, and a frequent contributor to academic journals and research, and she translates her academic and therapeutic experience to the public through her popular and vibrant Instagram page, which has garnered over 200K followers. She is an adjunct professor in the School of Education and Social Policy at Northwestern University and is a licensed clinical psychologist in private practice. Her hit podcast, Reimagining Love, has reached listeners across the globe and features high-profile guests from the worlds of therapy, academia, and pop culture. She is the award-winning author of Taking Sexy Back, Loving Bravely, and Love Every Day. Dr. Alexandra has a PhD in counseling psychology from Northwestern University. Michelle Joy, MA, MFT Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist Michelle Joy is a licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and serves on the Board of Directors for the Couples Institute Counseling Services in the San Francisco Bay Area. With almost 20 years of therapy training and experience, Michelle offers couples therapy intensives, communication workshops, and Marriage Prep101 Workshops. Michelle is also a certified Enneagram teacher, has presented at the 25th annual International Enneagram Conference, and is a graduate of The Developmental Model of Couples Therapy – Advanced Level. She received an MS in Counseling Psychology from Santa Clara University. Julie Krizner Licensed Professional Counselor Julie Krizner is a Licensed Professional Counselor and is the Executive Director at Axiom Family Counseling Services. With over 10 years of professional experience in the mental health field, Julie is trained in trauma, marriage, and family therapy. Her clinics have programs that specialize in addiction and she has extensive knowledge about addiction and medications to assist with overcoming it. Julie is a Certified Advanced Alcohol and Drug Counselor in the state of Pennsylvania. She received her Bachelor's degree in Psychology from Saint Vincent College and a Master's in Mental Health Counseling from Capella University. Jesse Lyon MS, CCHt, QS, LMHC Dream Interpreter and Clinical Hypnotherapist Jesse Lyon is a licensed counselor, dream interpreter and clinical hypnotherapist based in Orlando, FL. With over a decade of experience, Jesse has an extensive background in complex trauma, anxiety, dissociative disorders, and the neurodivergent community. In 2017, he launched his private practice, Lyon Counseling LLC, where he bridges the gap between modern culture and empathetic mental health. Jesse is a passionate educator and viral social media influencer with over 2.5 million TikTok followers @LyonMentalHealth, where he shares insights on the subconscious mind, dream interpretation, and more. He is also the cofounder of Trauma Focused Hypnotherapy, a hypnotherapy practice that offers in-person trainings with clients, plus online courses and other educational resources. He previously worked as one of the founders and Chief Dream Scientist at the DreamApp Ltd. Jesse graduated with a BA in Psychology from Thomas Edison State University, and with a Masters of Science in Counseling Psychology from Palm Beach Atlantic University. Jennifer Brown Teen Life Coach and Motivational Speaker Jennifer Brown is a teen life coach and motivational speaker based in Dallas, Texas. In 2023, Jennifer founded Jenn Brown Coaching and became a certified Life Coach for Young Adults and teens through iPEC Coaching. She is passionate about guiding teens and young adults to build confidence, explore their intuition, and overcome challenges. Jennifer specializes in healthy mindsets, communication skills, conflict resolution, goal setting, and personalized study styles. Her work has been featured in publications like Business Insider and Newsweek, and she appeared on NBC Texas Today. Jennifer has a master’s of education from the University of Texas at Arlington and over 16 years of experience in education. Ashlyne Mullen, PsyD Licensed Clinical Psychologist Dr. Ashlyne Mullen is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist based in New York City. She specializes in helping people through chronic illness, anxiety, depression, grief, insomnia, personal growth, and relationships. Dr. Mullen holds a PsyD in Clinical Psychology, an MS in Applied Psychology, and an MA in Educational Psychology. She has extensive training in Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), Radically Open Dialectical Behavior Therapy (RO-DBT), Functional Analytic Psychotherapy (FAP), and other mindfulness-based interventions. Alicia Hyatte, LMSW Master's Degree, Social Work, Florida International University Alicia Hyatte is a licensed Health Coach and Counselor at Whole Family Living in Orlando, Florida. She received her Masters in Social Work from Florida International University in 2002. Laurel Schwartz, MSW Crisis Counselor, Crisis Text Line Laurel Schwartz is a Crisis Counselor for Crisis Text Line, a nonprofit that has exchanged over 100 million messages with people in crisis around the US. Crisis Text Line provides free, 24/7 crisis support via text, and those in crisis can text 741741 to be connected with a trained Crisis Counselor. Laurel received her Master of Social Work from Columbia University in 2019, and has been featured on Forbes's "30 under 30" list for her work building the Crisis Text line brand. Tamara L. Hartl, PhD Psychologist Dr. Hartl is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist with over 10 years of private practice experience. Now based in the San Francisco Bay Area, Dr. Hartl completed her PhD in Clinical Psychology from the University of Connecticut and her postdoctoral fellowship with the VA Palo Alto Health Care System and Stanford University in 2004. She has served as an attending staff psychologist at the VA and as a Clinical Instructor in the Psychiatry Department at Stanford University. Karissa Brennan, LMHC, MA Mental Health Counselor Karissa Brennan is a licensed Mental Health Counselor, Distance Credentialed Counselor, and Psychotherapist based in New York City with over 9 years of experience. She received her MA in Mental Health Counseling from the City College of New York in 2011. She is a member of the International Society for Mental Health Online. Eric A. Samuels, PsyD Clinical Psychologist Eric A. Samuels, Psy.D. is a Licensed Clinical Psychologist in private practice in San Francisco and Oakland, California. He received a Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology from The Wright Institute in 2016 and is a member of the American Psychological Association and Gaylesta, the Psychotherapist Association for Gender and Sexual Diversity. Eric specializes in working with men, young adults, and people with diverse sexual orientations and gender identities. Ashley Womble, MPH Master's Degree, Public Health, City University of New York Ashley Womble, MPH, is a writer and mental health advocate. She is the Head of Communications for Crisis Text Line, which provides free, 24/7 mental health support. Ashley is the author of “Everything Is Going to Be OK: A Real Talk Guide to Living Well with Mental Illness.” She received her Masters in Public Health from CUNY Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy. Food & Nutrition Jennifer Levasseur Personal Chef Chef Jennifer Levasseur is a Personal Chef and the Owner of The Happy Cuisiniere based in Breckenridge, Colorado. She has over 12 years of culinary experience and specializes in Mountain and Contemporary Rustic cuisine. Moreover, she can craft dishes and modify menus to accommodate dietary restrictions, such as gluten-free, vegetarian, vegan, pescatarian, and dairy-free diets. In addition to a Bachelor’s degree in Marketing and Management from the University of Houston, Chef Jennifer holds Associate’s degrees in Culinary Arts and Baking & Pastry Arts from Houston Community College. Claudia Carberry, RD, MS Registered Dietitian Claudia Carberry is a Registered Dietitian based in Little Rock, Arkansas. Claudia specializes in kidney transplants and counseling patients for weight loss. She works at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences center, and has been working there since 2015. Before her current role, she worked as a Clinical Nutrition Manager at Jefferson Regional Medical Center. She is a member of the Arkansas Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Claudia received her MS in Nutrition from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, where she completed her 1200 hour dietetic internship. She received a BS in Nutrition Sciences from Southeast Missouri State University. Marrow Private Chefs Private Chefs Marrow Private Chefs are based in Santa Rosa Beach, Florida. It is a chefs’ collaborative comprised of an ever-growing number of chefs and culinary professionals. Though regionally influenced primarily by coastal, traditional southern, cajun, and creole styles and flavors, the chefs at Marrow have a solid background in all types of cuisine with over 75 years of combined cooking experience. Chef Jeff Woodward Private Chef Jeff Woodward is a Private Chef and the Owner of The Rogue Chef based in Branson, Missouri. With over 20 years of experience in the restaurant industry, he has cooked for esteemed clients including The Harlem Globetrotters, Peyton Manning, Mark Wahlberg, and Justin Timberlake. Chef Jeff won the Branson Tri-Lakes News Reader's Choice Award 2023 for Best Catering. He has been the Featured Chef Demonstrator for 2 years in a row for The Women's Show in Springfield, MO. The Rogue Chef has been the Hollister Chamber of Commerce Spotlight Chef, an award published in Tri-Lakes News. Chef Jeff's food has been featured on KY3 Television. He publishes a recipe weekly in the Branson Globe newspaper and monthly in Lost on the Lake Magazine. He published a feature article for Chef Talks in Discover Home and Style Magazine. He has an associate’s degree from Southwestern Illinois College and a Culinary Arts degree with a Certification in Baking from Ozark Technical College. Ollie George Cigliano Private Chef & Food Educator Ollie George Cigliano is a Private Chef, Food Educator, and Owner of Ollie George Cooks, based in Long Beach, California. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in utilizing fresh, fun ingredients and mixing traditional and innovative cooking techniques. Ollie George holds a BA in Comparative Literature from The University of California, Berkeley, and a Nutrition and Healthy Living Certificate from eCornell University. Ashley Crawford Private Chef Chef Ashley Crawford is a Private Chef and the Founder of A Taste of Chef Ash. Chef Ashley started in the culinary industry when she was 14. She specializes in Creole and Cajun cuisine but has experience in all culinary topics. She has been featured in ESPN and Sports Illustrated for her culinary work with athletes. Andrew Carberry, MPH Food Systems and Gardening Expert Andrew Carberry is a Food Systems Expert and the Senior Program Associate at the Wallace Center at Winrock International in Little Rock, Arkansas. He has worked in food systems since 2008 and has experience working on farm-to-school projects, food safety programs, and working with local and state coalitions in Arkansas. He is a graduate of the College of William and Mary and holds a Masters degree in public health and nutrition from the University of Tennessee. Craig Watson Baker Craig Watson is a Baker, Entrepreneur, and the Founder of Baked Cravings, a nut-free bakery in New York City. With eight years of experience, he specializes in creating high-quality baked goods in a nut-free facility. Baked Cravings has received The Best of Manhattan Award. Craig holds a Bachelor's Degree in Accounting from New Jersey City University and a Master of Business Administration in Marketing from Wilmington University. Maria Short Baker Maria Short is a Baker and the Owner of Short N Sweet Bakery & Cafe in Hilo, Hawaii. With over 24 years of experience, she specializes in specialty desserts and wedding cakes. She graduated from L’Academie de Cuisine’s Pastry Arts Program with honors and studied at Baltimore International Culinary College. In 2019, Maria competed in the 6th season of the Food Network’s Holiday Baking Championship. In 2010, she had a cake named one of “America’s Most Beautiful Cakes” by Brides magazine. JoAnna Minneci Professional Chef JoAnna Minneci is a retired Professional Chef based in the Nashville, Tennessee area. With 18 years of experience, Chef JoAnna specialized in teaching others how to cook through private cooking lessons, team-building events, and wellness and nutrition classes. She also appeared in numerous television shows on networks such as Bravo and Food Network. Chef JoAnna received Culinary Arts training from the Art Institute of California at Los Angeles. She is also certified in sanitation, nutrition, kitchen management, and cost control. Lyssandra Guerra Certified Nutrition & Wellness Consultant Lyssandra Guerra is a Certified Nutrition & Wellness Consultant and the Founder of Native Palms Nutrition based in Oakland, California. She has over five years of nutrition coaching experience and specializes in providing support to overcome digestive issues, food sensitivities, sugar cravings, and other related dilemmas. She received her holistic nutrition certification from the Bauman College: Holistic Nutrition and Culinary Arts in 2014. Karin Lindquist Animal Scientist Karin Lindquist earned a BSc in Agriculture as an Animal Science major from the University of Alberta, Canada. She has over 20 years of experience working with cattle and crops. She's worked for a mixed-practice veterinarian, as a sales representative in a farm supply store, and as a research assistant doing rangeland, soil, and crop research. She currently works as a forage and beef agriculture extension specialist, advising farmers on a variety of issues relating to their cattle and the forages they grow and harvest. Sander Raav Mixologist Sander Raav is a Mixologist based in Seattle, Washington. He is the founder of Seattle Bartending Company, which offers Cocktail Workshops and Classes. He has over 15 years of experience bartending in multiple high-end restaurants, including 8 years as Bar Manager at The Tin Table. He has held positions as a bartender, bar manager, and as treasurer for the Seattle chapter of the United States Bartenders Guild. Sander has created and organized many bartending events, fundraisers, cocktail classes, and presentations. He has participated in many cocktail competitions and has garnered over a dozen wins and placements in the top 3 of national and local competitions. Thanks to his extensive competition and cocktail knowledge, he has also judged many competitions as well. In 2020, he founded Shake, Stir & Savor, a mixology education program, and has been offering live and virtual cocktail classes since. In his classes, Sander teaches his students to think like bartenders, while making concepts simple, easy to grasp, and replicable. Courtney Fose, RD, MS Registered Dietitian and Certified Nutrition Support Clinician Courtney Fose is a registered dietitian and certified nutrition support clinician based in Little Rock, Arkansas. With over 16 years of experience, Courtney is currently an Assistant Professor and the Program Director for the Master of Science in Dietetics Program at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences. She received her MS in Clinical Nutrition from the University of Central Arkansas in 2016. Sasha Reyes Executive Chef Chef Sasha Reyes is the Executive Chef and Owner of Artisan Personal Chefs. With over 20 years of food industry experience, she specializes in private dinner parties, custom sports nutrition plans for professional athletes, and cooking lessons. Chef Reyes graduated from Arizona Culinary Institute in 2011 with a degree in Culinary Arts, Baking, and Restaurant Management. Tom Blake Professional Bartender Tom Blake is a Bartending Expert and the creator of the Crafty Bartending website. He has over 10 years of experience in the industry as a professional bartender, bar manager, and traveling bartender. Throughout his career, he’s worked in all sorts of venues & positions, and notably traveled his way through Europe, the UK, South-East Asia and Australia, all while bartending. He is the author of “The Bartender’s Field Manual”, which covers a myriad of topics, including bartending as a profession, the composition of alcohol and spirits, and craft cocktail recipes. Murphy Perng Certified Wine Consultant Murphy Perng is a Wine Consultant and the Founder and Host of Matter of Wine, a business that produces educational wine events, including team-building experiences, networking events, and private parties. Based in Los Angeles, California, Murphy has served as a Wine Educator for clients such as Google, Buzzfeed, Tiktok, Snapchat, and Equinox and been featured on National Geographic and The Somm Journal. Murphy possesses her WSET (Wine & Spirit Education Trust) Level 3 Advanced Certification. Steve Masley Home & Garden Specialist Steve Masley has been designing and maintaining organic vegetable gardens in the San Francisco Bay Area for over 30 years. He is an Organic Gardening Consultant and Founder of Grow-It-Organically, a website that teaches clients and students the ins and outs of organic vegetable gardening. In 2007 and 2008, Steve taught the Local Sustainable Agriculture Field Practicum at Stanford University. Randall Chambers Personal Chef Randall (Randy) Chambers is a Personal Chef and the Owner of Luxury Meals From Home based in Arvada, Colorado. He has more than 16 years of commercial kitchen experience, five years of sous chef experience, and two years of experience as an executive chef. Chef Randy draws inspiration from his half Bolivian background and his forte is South American cuisine. He holds an Associate’s degree in Culinary Arts from The Art Institute. Markeicha Dulaney Personal Chef Chef Markeicha Dulaney is a Personal Chef and Founder of Sweet Monáe Personal Chef Services in 2015 in South Florida. She has over 22 years of experience in the kitchen and provides customizable menus to meet the dietary needs, taste preferences, style, and budget of each client. She also specializes in weekly in-home chef services, all-inclusive pro-chef services, boutique catering, and pantry organizing services. She was featured in The Knot's "Table for Two" YouTube episodes and has also been featured in Real Simple Magazine article on "What routines save you the most time.” Chef Markeicha Dulaney graduated with an Associate's Degree from the Pennsylvania Culinary Institute of Culinary Arts and is a longtime member of the USPCA (United States Personal Chef Association). Wayne Dang Fast Food & Social Media Expert Wayne Dang is a Fast Food Expert & Video Creator specializing in sharing restaurant and fast food reviews. Wayne has a follower base of over 90,000 YouTube subscribers and his videos have over 21 million views. He also has over 1.2 million followers on Tiktok. Wayne is known for his high energy and entertaining content. Some of his most popular content includes secret menu reviews and trying special items at restaurants. Alex Hong Executive Chef & Restaurant Owner Alex Hong is the Executive Chef and Co-Owner of Sorrel, a New American restaurant in San Francisco. He has been working in restaurants for over 12 years. Alex is a graduate of the Culinary Institute of America and has worked in the kitchens of Jean-Georges and Quince, both Michelin-starred restaurants. Abyssinia Campbell Executive Chef Abyssinia Campbell is an Executive Chef and the Owner of Chef Abyssinia, Personal Chef and Catering. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in catering, event planning, menu development, meal planning, and food business operations. When it comes to cooking, Chef Abyssinia enjoys using fruits, vegetables, healthy food alternatives, and local farm-fresh ingredients. She holds a BASc in Culinary Arts and Food Service Management from Johnson and Wales University. Melody Sayers, MS, RD, NASM-CPT Registered Dietician & Personal Trainer Melody Sayers is a Registered Dietitian and NASM (National Academy of Sports Medicine) Certified Personal Trainer. She is the owner of Elevate Your Plate®, a private nutrition counseling and personal training practice, focused on an evidence-based, individualized, realistic, and results-driven approach to improving one's health. With over 8 years of experience, Melody has worked in both the private and public health sectors, helping both individuals and communities achieve milestones in managing their weight and preventing disease. She currently holds a Certificate in Adult Weight Management and a Master of Science in Nutrition, Dietetics, and Food Science from the California State University - Northridge. Ed Kuoha Chef Ed Kuoha is a Chef and the Owner of Kuoha Culinary based in Aiea, Hawaii. He has more than 20 years of experience in various culinary kitchens and settings such as Morimoto Waikiki, where he received hands-on training from Iron Chef Morimoto. Chef Ed specializes in small catering events and private chef requests. He holds an Associate’s degree from The Culinary Institute of the Pacific at Kapiolani Community College. Quynh La Professional Baker Quynh La is a Professional Baker and the Owner of Sugar Bakery & Cafe in Seattle, Washington. With over seven years of experience, she specializes in baking cakes, cookies, croissants, and bread. Quynh holds an AAS in Culinary Arts from South Seattle College and a second AAS in Specialty Desserts & Bread from Seattle Central College. Rich Lee Coffee & Food Program Director, Spro Coffee Lab Rich is the Coffee & Food Program Director of Spro Coffee Lab in San Francisco, a California-based company that specializes in craft coffee, experimental mocktails, and culinary food science.  Together with his team, Rich strives to bring forth a uniquely transcendent experience, free of stereotypical eats and drinks. Prior to owning his own business, Rich was a barista for big name coffee retailers such as Blue Bottle Coffee and Sightglass. Dorrenda Smith Personal Chef Dorrenda “Renny” Smith is a Personal Chef and the Co-Founder & CEO of The Crain Experience. With almost 15 years of experience in the food industry, she specializes in creating soul food with a healthier spin. Chef Renny and her partner provide event catering, event planning, and restaurant and food truck consultations. She also specifically offers gluten-free, vegetarian, and vegan catering options. Chef Renny has been hired over 200 times through her 'Dine with Renny' experience, and has received Top Pro status on Thumbtack in 2022, 2023, and 2024. Dee Dine Nutrition & Vegan Food Specialist Dee Dine is a Certified Nutrition Specialist (CNS), two-time cookbook author, and the founder of the award-winning healthy recipe food blog Green Smoothie Gourmet. Dee has a background in biology and nutrition science, with an emphasis on immunology, and holds a graduate certificate in nutritional science. For over 10 years, Dee has created and shared healthy recipes and articles on easy, healthy nutrition on her blog, Green Smoothie Gourmet, and on her social media @greensmoothiegourmet, where she has a community of over 121k followers. Dee is an editor with TheFeedFeed, a crowdsourced digital cooking publication, and is a former business and health journalist with Crain Communications and Fortune magazine. Concurrently, Dee is a web developer supporting nonprofits on design, user experience, front and backend functionality, UI/UX, content development, SEO, project management, and content creation skills. David Williams Beekeeper & Bee Removal Specialist David Williams is a Professional Beekeeper and Bee Removal Specialist with over 28 years of beekeeping experience. He is the Owner of Bzz Bee Removal, a bee removal company based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Bzz Bee Removal locates, captures, and transports bees to local beekeepers to prevent colony collapse disorder. Mimi Perryman Business Owner & Bartender Mimi Perryman is a Bartender and the Owner of Events with LML, an events company based in the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area but serving the full state of California. With over 15 years of experience in the serving industry, she specializes in traveling bartender services and event planning. She earned a BS in Marketing from California State University-Dominguez Hills, is ServSafe & RBS Certified, and carries a bartending license. She also has a Marketing & Graphic Design background and is a member of the American Marketing Association. Events with LML has a 5-star rating on Yelp and is a featured vendor on The Knot. Lisa Britten Award-Winning Baker Lisa Britten is an Award-Winning Baker and the Owner of Linnybird Bakeshop, based in Lake Dallas, Texas. With over 14 years of professional baking experience, Lisa specializes in cheesecakes, cupcakes, cakes, cinnamon rolls, and cookies. Her Berry Pecan cupcake was named the official Cupcake of Texas in 2010. Maha Mohamed Custom Dessert Artist Maha Mohamed is a Custom Dessert Artist and the Owner of Sweet Treats SJ. Maha has over ten years of experience creating custom treats for special occasions. She specializes in custom cakes, cupcakes, cookies, and chocolate-covered treats. Jerran Boyer Nutrition-Focused Professional Chef Chef Jerran Boyer is a Nutrition-Focused Professional Chef and the CEO of Health Nut Chefs. Chef Jerran has over 20 years of experience as a private chef. She and her team specialize in providing healthy, fresh-prepared meals designed with each client’s taste and dietary needs in mind. She and her team offer both personal, part-time chef services and private, full-time chef services in New York, New Jersey, and the Los Angeles area. Chef Jerran received her BS in Business Administration from the University of South Florida, a degree in Culinary Arts from Florida Culinary Institute, and a Plant-Based Nutrition Certificate through Cornell University. Mathew Rice Professional Baker & Dessert Influencer Mathew Rice has worked in restaurant pastry kitchens across the country since the late 1990's, and currently owns Pink Door Cookies in Nashville. His creations have been featured in Food & Wine, Bon Appetit, and Martha Stewart Weddings. In 2016, Eater named Mathew one of the top 18 chefs to follow on Instagram. In 2018, he appeared in season 18 of the Food Network's Beat Bobby Flay and won his episode. Yoko Isassi Japanese Food Specialist Yoko Isassi is a Japanese Food Specialist and the Founder of Foodstory in Los Angeles, California. Since 2011, she has taught others how to cook Japanese food and educated others about Japanese food culture. Yoko holds an MA from Columbia University. Jessica Banh Pastry Chef Jessica Banh is a Pastry Chef and the Owner of Fancy Flavors in San Jose, California. With over 12 years of technical experience, Jessica has expertise in a wide variety of pastry techniques and has a focus on macarons. Her work has been featured in The SF Chronicle, The Mercury News, and Good Morning America. She received her training from The Professional Culinary Institute. Sarena Nelson Private Chef Sarena Nelson is a Private Chef and the Founder of Chef Sarena, based in Palm Springs, California. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in customized menus for private events, has worked in 5-star restaurants, and has helped small restaurants redesign their menus. She earned her degree from Le Cordon Bleu School of Culinary Arts in Pasadena, California. Don Tipping Organic Farmer Don Tipping is an Organic Farmer based in Williams, Oregon. With almost 30 years of full-time experience with organic farming, Don owns and operates a mail-order seed company, Siskiyou Seeds, which is a bio-regional seed hub. He specializes in growing crops, including vegetables, flowers, medicinal and culinary herbs, and seed crops. Don is a member of the Organic Seed Alliance and has a Bachelor of Applied Science (BASc) from the University of California, Davis. Daniel Siriban Japanese Personal Chef Daniel Siriban is a Japanese Personal Chef and the Owner of Roshi Experience. With over 18 years of culinary experience, he specializes in sushi, teppanyaki, and traditional Japanese dining. Daniel holds an AA in Restaurant, Culinary, and Catering Management from The Art Institute of California, Orange County. Ross Canter Professional Baker Ross Canter is a Professional Baker and the Co-Founder of Cookie Good in Santa Monica, California. Originally a screenwriter, Ross decided to pursue his passion for baking and opened Cookie Good in 2007 with his wife, Melanie. Ross and Melanie opened their brick and mortar bakery in 2014. With over 15 years of experience, Ross specializes in creating high quality cookies with unique flavor options and helping people feel “cookie good” one cookie at a time. Jillian Fae Downing Private Event Chef & Chef Educator Jillian Fae Downing is a Private Event Chef, Chef Educator, and the Owner of Jillian Fae Chef Services based out of Temecula, California. With 12 years of experience, she specializes in menu planning and menu research and development. Jillian Fae holds an Associate of Science in Culinary Arts from Orange Coast College and a BA in Mass Communication and Media Studies from Arizona State University. She is also a member of the American Culinary Federation and the American Personal and Private Chef Association. Jennifer Lease, RD, CDN Registered Dietitian & Trained Chef Jennifer Lease is a Registered Dietitian and Trained Chef based in Denver, Colorado. With nine years of experience in the food and nutrition fields, she specializes in a plant-forward approach to applying nutrition information to cooking. Jennifer holds a BS in Dietetics and a Dietetic Internship Certificate from The University of Delaware. She also received her professional chef training from The Natural Gourmet Institute for Health and Culinary Arts. Leslie Chartier Executive Personal Chef Leslie Chartier is a Personal Chef and the Owner and Founder of The Travelling Cafe based in North Carolina. Leslie is a skilled culinary instructor, prior restauranteur, and avid traveler. The Travelling Cafe specializes in bringing inclusion into culinary experiences with food for different diets, restrictions, and cultures. Through her business, Leslie employs and manages a team of chefs who put on events throughout the Triangle region of North Carolina. Leslie and her team offer prepared meals, chef services for special events and dinner parties, and cooking classes and events. Marjan Mahallati, RHN, AADP Registered Holistic Nutritionist Marjan Mahallati is a Registered Holistic Nutritionist, board-certified through the AADP (American Association of Drugless Practitioners). Marjan has over 15 years of experience in the weight loss industry and is the Owner of Let's Nutrition Weight Loss & Nutrition Center in Newport Beach, California, where she teaches clients how to lose weight and achieve optimal nutrition and health. She graduated from the Canadian School of Natural Nutrition. John Burson Certified Nutritionist John Burson is a Certified Nutritionist, Licensed Herbalist, and Certified Personal Trainer. With over 25 years of experience, John specializes in helping clients lose weight and live healthier lives. John graduated magna cum laude and received a Bachelor’s degree in Business and Marketing from Grand Canyon University. He has also earned Thumbtack Top Pro honos for three consecutive years. Sean “Pooch” Rivera Chef, Restaurateur, and Culinary Media Personality Chef Sean “Pooch” Rivera is an award-winning New Orleans-based chef, restaurateur, and food media personality with over 30 years of culinary experience. Specializing in Creole and Cajun flavors with a global twist, he has been featured internationally on National Geographic’s World of Flavor with Big Moe Cason and is co-host of the #1 food podcast in the world, Walk-In Talk, which has surpassed 4.5 million downloads. Chef Rivera is the host of the upcoming food series Love to Eat and serves as a culinary ambassador through his family’s heritage brands—Olde Tyme New Orleans, Crescent City Meats, and Elmer’s Fine Foods. His work spans restaurants he has created and sold, consulting for CPG food brands, and collaborating with world-renowned chefs and culinary competitions, including Bocuse d’Or. He has been recognized as a Culinary Fight Club Pit Master Champion, is a member of culinary trade associations and featured on Love NOLA TV. Nathan Taylor Mixologist Nathan Taylor is a Mixologist and Owner of Cocktails Done Right based in Houston, TX. With over 25 years of experience, Nathan is passionate about providing first-class service and drinks, and training newer bartenders. Cocktails Done Right provides professional bartending services for special events, weddings, corporate events, and more. Their motto is “We mix the drinks, you mix the people”. His specialty is Vegas-style bartending with mind-blowing tricks and drinks. Nathan has 3 World Titles in Flair Bartending competitions, including one First Place Gold Shaker that he received while representing the US in Warsaw, Poland. He went to the Bartending School in 1993 and now works as an instructor at the Bartending and Mixology Academy. He is also a member of the United States Bartenders Guild. Anne Lloyd Professional Chef Chef Anne Lloyd is a Professional Chef and the Owner of Nolavore in New Orleans, Louisiana. Chef Anne has had a career in the restaurant and food service industries for over 30 years and has traveled and cooked on both coasts of the United States as well as in Europe and Southeast Asia. She specializes in utilizing local and regional foods to create dishes featuring international flavors. She also provides full-service catering, prepared foods, gourmet packaged goods, pantry items, and kids' cooking camps and classes for all ages. She received a BA in Anthropology from the University of California, Santa Cruz, and her Associate of Arts, Culinary Arts degree from the California Culinary Academy. Anne is an alumna of the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses Summit. John Diaz Personal Trainer John Diaz is a personal trainer and exercise professional with over 35 years of experience, based in Los Angeles, CA. John was first certified as a personal trainer in 1984 and later in 1989 co-founded Ultimate Health Medical Exercise Center with his sister Joanne. He creates prescriptive exercise programs designed specifically for his clients’ needs ranging from chronic pain relief, sports injury recovery, weight loss goals, and more.  John has a degree in Exercise Science, is a member of the American College of Sports Medicine, and is certified through the National Federation of Personal Trainers (NFPT). He also holds a 2nd degree Black Belt in martial arts and is a certified self-defense instructor. Kelly Miller Tea Sommelier and Manager of Product Development and Innovation, David's Tea Kelly Miller is a tea expert and the Manager of Product Development and Innovation at DAVIDsTea based in Quebec, Canada. With over nine years at DAVIDsTea, Kelly is experienced in research and development of all of the company's tea, including their powders, ready-to-drink, capsules, and more. She has been a tea sommelier for the past 10 years, certified through the Tea and Herbal Association of Canada, and has a personal tea collection with over 3,000 different teas. Katie Rhodes-Smith RD, MS Registered Dietician Katie Rhodes-Smith is a Registered Dietitian based in Little Rock, Arkansas. She was the founder of OWN-Nutrition, LLC, a nutrition planning business for athletes. She now works as a dietician at the Children's Hospital in Arkansas. Katie received her MS in Clinical Nutrition from the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences. She is board certified Specialist in Sports Dietetics. Monica Moreno, MS, RD, LD/N Registered Dietitian Monica Moreno is a Registered Dietitian and the Founder, Owner, and Lead Dietitian at Essence Nutrition in Miami, Florida. Monica specializes in nutrition consulting and school and corporate wellness programs. She holds a BA from The University of Florida and an MS in Dietetics and Nutrition from Florida International University. Monica was the dietitian for the Miami Marlins for close to 5 years, and she is currently visiting dietitian specialist at Ocean Reef Resort and Club. Monica is a member of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Nutrition Entrepreneurs Dietetics Practice Group, Integrative Nutrition Dietetics Practice Group, Collegiate and Professionals Sports Dietitians Association, and Weight Management Dietetic Practice Group. She was awarded the 2020 Coral Gables Chamber of Commerce Business Woman in Healthcare of the Year award. Bryan Sullivan Bartender Bryan Sullivan is a Bartender and the Owner of Bryan Sullivan Bartending in Seattle, Washington. With over 10 years of experience, he specializes in craft cocktails and has a thorough knowledge of beer, wine, and champagne. He currently holds a MAST Class 12 Mixologist Permit and has provided bar service for 100s of events. Additionally, his business has a 5-star rating and is a listed vendor on The Knot. Thuong Tan Noodle Expert Thuong Tan is a Noodle Expert and the Founder of Noodelist, a food startup producing plant-based instant noodles. Thuong holds a Bachelor’s degree in International Business and Marketing from Haaga-Helia, University of Applied Sciences, and an MBA in Luxury Brand Management from IFA Paris, Polimoda/Shanghai University. Noodelist’s mission is to produce premium plant-based moroheiya noodles that are nutrient-dense, texturally pleasing, and environmentally friendly. Linda McNally Personal Chef & Nutritionist Linda Ingaldson McNally is a Personal Chef & Nutritionist and the Co-Founder of Sage Home Chef based in Portland, Oregon. Linda and her team specialize in personalized meal preparation and create seasonal menus to accommodate various dietary restrictions. She has extensive knowledge in nutrition relating to women's health, mindful eating, and therapeutic diets. Sage Home Chef won the AI Business Excellence Awards for Oregon's Best Healthy Cuisine Personal Chef Services and Best of Portland Personal Chef Services in 2022. Linda has a degree in Journalism, Social Justice, and Family Studies from the University of St. Thomas and earned an MS in Nutrition from the National University of Natural Medicine in Portland. Santos Aviles Grill Expert Santos Aviles is a Grill Master and the Owner of Spirit of Texas BBQ in San Bernardino, California. He specializes in Central Texas-style barbeque. He serves a variety of smoked, grilled, and roasted meats, including 14-hour smoked brisket, sausage, and other cuts of beef. Spirit of Texas BBQ is also a 5-star rated business. Julien Miller Personal Chef Julien Miller is a Personal Chef and the Owner of Cooking with Julien based in Reno, Nevada. Chef Julien specializes in Cajun and Creole cuisines and is also known for cooking delicious hibachi and Southeast Asian dishes. He offers private event catering, meal preparation services, and his famous Louisiana Crawfish Boils. Julien received his Bachelor of Applied Science in Psychology from Portland State University. Stephen Servis Private Chef Stephen Servis is a Private Chef and the Co-Owner of Servis Events Fine Dining along with his twin brother, Nicolas. Based in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, Stephen and Nicolas focus on using locally sourced and seasonal ingredients, building close relationships with farmers and community members, and educating people on how to cook and eat more seasonally and sustainably. Servis Events operates at the intersection of health-focused meals and luxury dining, offering both private dinner parties and event catering services. Stephen and Nicolas graduated from the Culinary Arts program at Middle Bucks Institute of Technology and received their associate degrees in Hotel and Restaurant Management from Bucks County Community College. Samuel Bogue Certified Sommelier Samuel Bogue is a sommelier based in San Francisco, California. He is the Wine Director of the renouned Ne Timeas Restaurant Group and a wine consultant for other top restaurants in the San Francisco Bay area. He gained his Sommelier certification in 2013, and since then has been recognized as a Zagat "30 Under 30" award winner and a Star Chefs Rising Star. Andrea Lawson Gray Private Chef Andrea Lawson Gray is a Private Chef and the Co-Founder of Private Chefs of the SF Bay. With more than ten years of experience, she specializes in Mexican cuisine and culinary history. Chef Andrea is also the author of Celebraciones Mexicanas: History, Traditions, and Recipes, an award-winning cookbook. Jaden Zhao Barista Jaden Zhao is a Barista and the Owner of Jiaren Cafe & Yoga Studio in Santa Clara, California. Her cafe specializes in matcha drinks, espresso, coffee, fruit drinks, and herbal drinks. Additionally, the cafe hosts classes and features a yoga studio and a community space. Jaden earned an MS from Santa Clara University Leavey School of Business and a BA from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Yasmin Rosales Professional Bartender Yasmin Rosales is a Bartending Expert based in South Florida. She is the Founder, CEO, and Lead Bartender at Stir it Up Mobile Bar, a mobile bar serving all of South, Florida. Since its founding in 2020, Stir It Up has become a highly respected name in the local event and mobile bartending industry, and prides itself in delivering excellence and an unmatched experience as a preferred luxury bar service. Yasmin has 18 years in the event and hospitality industry, and has made it her mission to infuse joy and a touch of sophistication into every event. In addition to Stir it Up, she owns several satellite bars, a refurbished horse trailer bar named “Glory” and manages a team of bartenders who love the industry as much as she does. She recieved an AS from Broward College in Crime Scene Technology. Helen Rennie Chef Helen Rennie is a chef based in Natick, Massachusetts. She is both the owner of a cooking school and the creator of Helen’s Kitchen, a YouTube channel where she teaches cooking techniques and food science to over 560K subscribers. Helen’s classes and videos focus on many topics, including knife skills, fish, meat, poultry, sauces, vegetables, beans, grains, pies, tarts, pastry, pizza, pasta, grilling, and more. She started her cooking career with an internship in Casablanca Restaurant, and eventually earned a teaching position at the Cambridge Center for Adult Education. In 2005, she founded Helen's Kitchen, her culinary education business where she teaches people to cook. Since its founding, Helen’s Kitchen has taught 1,000+ students. Helen's cooking philosophy centers on finding creative ways to prepare local ingredients. She teaches cooking classes in her house in Natick with a strong focus on culinary techniques and food science. She received a BS in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University. Nicole Wilson Tea Expert Nicole Wilson is a Tea Writer and Educator based in Bayonne, New Jersey. Nicole is the founder and author of Tea for Me Please, one of the longest-running tea blogs on the internet. Since 2008, Nicole’s blog has been a comprehensive resource for tea enthusiasts, featuring tea reviews, industry news, and educational content. In addition, her over a decade of experience delving into the tea industry has led her to develop both in-person and online courses to help people learn more about tea. In 2022, Nicole published The Tea Recipe Book: 50 Hot and Iced Teas from Lattes to Bobas, which includes brewing basics, tea recipes, and recommendations for the perfect cup. She has also served as a judge for the North American Tea Masters Cup. Katie Hake RDN, LD Registered Dietitian, Nutritionist & Certified Personal Trainer Katie Hake is a Registered Dietitian, Licensed Nutritionist, Fitness Professional and the Owner of Katie Hake Health & Fitness, LLC. She specializes in constructing sustainable life changes in health and fitness. Katie received a dual degree BS in Dietetics and Nutrition & Fitness and Health from Purdue University. Dina Garcia, RD, LDN, CLT Registered Dietitian-Nutritionist Dina Garcia is a Registered Dietitian, Nutritionist, and the Founder of Vida Nutrition and Conscious Living, her private practice based in Miami, Florida. Dina specializes in helping yo-yo dieters and binge eaters overcome food guilt, practice self-love, and rediscover self confidence. She has over 15 years as a dietitian. She received a BS in Dietetics from Ball State University and completed her supervised dietician practice at California State University, Fresno. She is certified as a Registered Dietitian (RD) by the Commission on Dietetic Registration and is a Florida Licensed Dietician/Nutritionist (LDN). Olivia Mitchell, RDN, IFNCP Integrative & Functional Nutrition Certified Practitioner Olivia Mitchell is an Integrative and Functional Nutrition Certified Practitioner (IFNCP™) and a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) with a focus on women's hormones and fertility. She is the founder of Your Fertility, Your Future, a fertility consultancy with the mission of giving clients the knowledge and tools to optimize their fertility and achieve a healthy pregnancy naturally. Olivia helps clients dive deeper into often overlooked causes of infertility with a customized diet, lifestyle, and supplement changes. She is also the co-founder of the Natalwork and Lead Nutrition Coach with On The Goga. Olivia received her Bachelor’s degree in Nutrition Sciences from West Chester University of Pennsylvania and her RDN from The University of Houston. Ririka Evans Personal Chef Ririka Evans is a Personal Chef and the Founder of Home Cooking Solutions based in Frederick, Maryland. She has been a Chef for over 11 years at commercial kitchens across Japan and the US. She specializes in Japanese food and home-cooked meals. She creates customized menus and cooks for both families and special events. She’s prepared meals for clients from all walks of life, including public figures, CEOs, business owners, professionals, and busy families. She studied cooking and catering at Stratford Career Institute and is a certified ServSafe Food Protection Manager. Patricia Somers, RD, PhD Registered Dietitian Patricia Somers is a Registered Dietitian and an Associate Professor of the Department of Educational Leadership and Policy at the University of Texas at Austin. She received her RD from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in 1979 and her PhD in Educational Administration (Higher Education Specialization) from the University of New Orleans. She received an Emerging Scholar Award from the American Association of University Women and the Faculty Excellence Award in Research from the University of Arkansas, Little Rock. Julian Beer Company BBQ Experts Julian Beer Company is based in Julian, California. Established in 2011 by BBQ Expert and Business Operator, Jeremy Marsaglia, the Julian Beer Company specializes in handcrafted beers and barbecue. Restaurant Guru named it #1 Barbecue in Julian in 2020. Sporked Food Testing Experts Sporked is a team of expert food writers and editors dedicated to finding the best food products for consumers through in-house taste tests. Their reviews and rankings cover all categories of food and drink, ensuring that their readers will find the right products for their needs. Sporked is a part of Mythical, along with popular YouTube channels Good Mythical Morning and Mythical Kitchen. Bekah Rife Certified Plant-Based Chef Bekah Rife is a Certified Plant-Based Chef based in Los Angeles, California. Bekah has over eight years of professional experience and studied plant-based cooking in culinary school. Currently, she specializes in diet consulting and recipe development. She also offers cooking lessons and catering services. Hans Cho Korean BBQ Expert Hans Cho is a Korean BBQ Expert and the President of Mama Cho's BBQ based in Castro Valley, California. He has over 18 years of experience and his family business, C&H Meat, has been a leading distributor of Korean BBQ meats in the San Francisco Bay Area for over 40 years. In 2015, they launched Mama Cho's BBQ with the goal of spreading the joy of Korean BBQ one meal at a time and making it accessible to everyone. Jason Mayer Personal Chef Jason Mayer is a Personal Chef based in Indianapolis, Indiana. He is a part of the United States Personal Chef Association, Indianapolis Business and Brews, and the New Jersey Chef Alliance. Chef Jason’s specialties include Asian Fusion, French, Greek, and various European cuisines. By working with farmers in the area, Chef Jason is determined to offer the freshest and best ingredients that he can for his clients in the Tri-Cities area of Indianapolis, Louisville, and Cincinnati. He offers a variety of services, including Private Home Dining, Cooking Classes, Weddings, Event Catering, and Restaurant Consulting. Before starting his personal chef business, he worked throughout the culinary world, including in fromageries, fine dining restaurants, in-home private dining, and 5 Diamond Hotels. Kady Richardson Mixologist Kady Richardson is a mixologist in the San Francisco Bay Area. Kady has completed the Comprehensive Bartending Training Program at The Cocktail Camp in San Francisco and specializes in creating approachable, at-home recipes for cocktails. Kady holds a BA in American Studies and an MA in Sociology from Stanford University. Brooke Cazier Baker Brooke Cazier is a Baker and the Owner & Founder of the Flaky Apple Pie Co based in Costa Mesa, California. She has over 20 years of experience in the kitchen and specializes in creating frozen pies to be baked at home. Brooke holds a Bachelors degree from Utah State University. Joshua & Jeremy George BBQ Specialists Joshua and Jeremy George are BBQ Specialists and the Co-Owners of Smokin J’s BBQ in San Diego, California. With over six years of experience, they specialize in slow-smoked meats and making in-house rubs and sauces. Smokin J’s BBQ has been featured in many publications, including The BBQ Magazine. Liz Riffle Regenerative Farming & Agriculture Specialist Liz Riffle is a Regenerative Farming & Agriculture Specialist and the Owner of Riffle Farm in West Virginia. With over six years of experience, Liz specializes in holistic bison farming and employing humane agricultural practices in her business. Riffle Farm is the first commercial bison operation in the state of West Virginia and is part of the movement to facilitate the large-scale regeneration of the world’s grasslands. Liz is a Savory Accredited Professional and teaches Holistic Management across the country. She received her Masters in Nursing Education from Excelsior University and was part of the US Navy Nurse Corps Commission at Northwestern University. Michael Caffrey Chef Michael Caffrey is an Executive Chef and owner of On Island Chefs, based in Nantucket, Massachusetts. An experienced culinary skills and food & beverage professional with a demonstrated history in the culinary industry, Caffrey has been working as a chef on Nantucket for over 25 years. His company, On Island Chefs, cooks for private clients, caters for weddings and parties, and provides a variety of culinary event services. He is skilled in restaurant management, kitchen management, and training & development. He is a member of SACMA as well as the International Culinary Federation. Michael studied at Le Cordon Bleu and received a BS from Immaculata University in Business Administration and Management. Karim McLaren Mixologist Karim McLaren is a Mixologist based in Brooklyn, New York. Also known as Likkle Rimmy, he is a dynamic entrepreneur and nightlife curator. With over a decade of experience in the industry, he has established himself as a premier mixologist, promoter, and business owner. His mobile bartending brand, Likkle Drinks, is known for blending expert mixology with a Caribbean flair, using top-quality fruit purees, fresh ingredients, and premium spirits to craft unforgettable cocktails. Karim’s passion goes beyond just making drinks; he educates and inspires his audience about the art of mixology while delivering exceptional experiences—whether through private events, custom craft cocktails, or large-scale parties. Mark Nichols Classically Trained Chef & BBQ Expert Mark Nichols is a Classically Trained Chef & BBQ Expert and the Owner of Arizona BBQ Company in Gilbert, Arizona. Mark has over 30 years in the hospitality and culinary industry. Mark and his wife, Colette, opened their first business, JC’s Catering in 2011, catering many private and corporate events. In September 2017, Mark and Colette opened their second business, Arizona BBQ Company, to share comfort food while infusing the flavors of the Southwest with their community. They are known for their high-quality smoked brisket, pulled pork, smoked chicken, St. Louis Ribs, smoked wings, Green Chile & Bacon Mac n’ Cheese, and signature Arizona BBQ sauces. Arizona BBQ Company has been featured on local news outlets including Fox 10 News, The New Times, East Valley Tribune, and Gilbert Sun Times. Additionally, Arizona BBQ Company had the pleasure of being featured on PBS’s "Check Please” hosted by Chef Mark Tarbell. Mark is a graduate of Scottsdale Culinary Institute, Le Cordon Bleu. Kelly Gomez Registered Dietitian Nutritionist Kelly Gomez is a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist and Director of Nutrition Services at DexaBody. She specializes in helping clients understand the relationship between their nutritional choices and overall health. She has clinical experience working with clients who need meal plans, nutrition counseling, and sports nutrition information. Kelly is a member of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and a member of the Collegiate and Professional Sports Dietitian Association (CPSDA). She has a Master of Science in nutrition science and a Bachelor's degree in kinesiology. Elsie Glasu-Atunuwa West African Chef Elsie Glasu-Atunuwa is a West African Chef and the Founder of Trices Cafe and Lounge in San Antonio, Texas. Elsie learned to cook from her mother, using only the finest ingredients to create great flavors. Her mother’s training and her own imagination allow her to create delicious traditional West African dishes to satisfy customers, friends, family, and colleagues. Her team specializes in serving dishes from Nigeria, Ghana, and Cameroun. They also offer catering for all occasions. Elsie studies General Science and holds a doctorate degree in Nursing from Grand Canyon University. Alexander Diestra Seafood & Sustainability Expert Alexander Diestra is a Chef based in Portland, Oregon. His key focuses are seafood and sustainability, and he works as Executive Chef at King Tide Fish & Shell restaurant. He has over 20 years of experience in the restaurant industry, and has served as Executive Chef for several reputable kitchens, including Saucebox Bar and Café, where he brought Asian fusion flavors to life, and Clarklewis, where he became a pro creating menus based on foods in season with a farm to table style menu. Most recently, he served as Executive Chef for Andina, a pioneer in the Portland Peruvian food scene, and launched the restaurant's celebrated street-food inspired pop-up, Chicha. At King Tide Fish & Shell, Chef Alex has refined his menu to highlight farm-to-table dishes with hints of Japanese and Peruvian cuisine prepared with local, sustainable ingredients. He received an Associate’s Degree in Culinary Arts and Chef Training from Le Cordon Bleu’s Portland, Oregon location. Allie Hiller Certified Health Coach Allie Hiller is a certified health coach based in New York City, NY. With over 12 years of experience, Allie is the founder of Healthy Alibi, where she helps clients of all ages, body types, and genders build sustainable, holistic wellness habits, anchored in a strong foundation of mental health, which she believes underpins all aspects of wellbeing. Allie offers 3-, 6-, and 10-session health coaching programs, as well as personalized grocery and pantry consulting. Beyond her private coaching practice, Allie shares wellness and lifestyle content with an audience of over 54k on social media, focusing on everyday health, motherhood, and the postpartum journey. Allie has partnered with leading brands, including Amazon, Athleta, Dannon, Reebok, Under Armour, Peloton, Target, Barry’s, Walmart, Kiehl’s, and more. She received her health coach certification from the Institute for Integrative Nutrition (IIN). Taylor DeCosta Executive Chef Taylor DeCosta is an Executive Chef and Founder of Taylor Made Cuisine in Orange County, California. With over 10 years of professional experience, Taylor and her team offer event catering and meal delivery services to clients all over Southern California, including Los Angeles and San Diego County. Taylor and her team have been featured in many publications including the Los Angeles Times, Goop, and Orange County Business Journal. Taylor received her Associate of Arts and Sciences (A.A.S.) degree in Culinary Arts and Chef Training from Orange Coast College. Traci Morgan-Hoernke Gluten-Free Baking Specialist Traci Morgan-Hoernke is a Gluten-Free Baking Specialist based in Milwaukee, WI. She is the owner of MOR Foods, LLC, a Bakery in Milwaukee dedicated to providing delicious Gluten-Free treats. She was inspired to start the bakery after spending years navigating her own son’s food allergies and subsequently built a business based on catering to those with food sensitivities. Gladys Jahn Baker, Founder of Knead Luv Gladys Jahn is a Baker specializing in gluten-free pastries and breads based in Phoenix, Arizona. Her lifelong love for baking evolved into a mission when she discovered her own gluten intolerance. Recognizing the need for delicious gluten-free options, she spent eight years perfecting her craft, ensuring that her gluten-free creations meet the highest standards. She founded Knead Luv in 2021, a bakery dedicated to creating gluten-free treats that are as flavorful as they are healthy. Knead Luv is a 100% dedicated gluten-free organic bakery, is the top recommended bakery for 2024 on Restaurantji, and has a 98% Recommend rating based on customer reviews. From weddings to private orders, she works closely with her clients to ensure every detail is perfect. Her greatest joy comes from providing gluten-free foods that surprise and delight, all while using love as her main ingredient. Gladys' dedication to making gluten-free baking accessible and enjoyable has helped her build a loyal community of customers. Emily Margolis Professional Baker Emily Margolis is a baking entrepreneur in Baltimore, MD. With over 15 years of baking experience, she founded Baking with Chef Emily in 2018, offering private baking lessons in the D.C. area. Nimisha Gandhi Certified Nutritionist Nimisha Gandhi is a Certified Nutritionist based in San Francisco, California. With over 15 years of research and clinical experience, she specializes in functional and ayurvedic reproductive and gut health. She is a certified Ayurvedic counselor from the Ayurvedic Institute of America and received her certification in nutrition from the Bauman College of Holistic Nutrition and Culinary Arts while also getting certified as a Yoga Nidra teacher from the California College of Ayurveda. She is also a certified Well Woman Yoga Practitioner and Conscious Parenting Coach. She earned her B.S. in Psychobiology from the University of California at Los Angeles. Nicholas Di Paolo Personal Chef Nicholas Di Paolo is a Personal Chef based in Sedona, Arizona. With over 30 years of restaurant experience, Chef Nick has worked in esteemed restaurants including Manhattan’s Raoul’s Bistro and Las Vegas' Foundation Room. Chef Nick has been featured in various publications including Time Out Magazine, Seven, Mountain Living, and the local news in New York City, Las Vegas, and Flagstaff. Chef Nick's Italian-America upbringing is the foundation of his private culinary services. Chef Nick offers buffet-style catering, wedding catering, and standard family dinner menus for clients. He attended the New York Restaurant School. Paul Segura Brewer Paul Segura is a beer and brewing expert based in San Diego, CA. With over 30 years of experience, Paul is the Head Brewer and Brewmaster at Karl Strauss Brewing Company. Paul has been with Karl Strauss Brewing Company for over 25 years and has been the Brewmaster for the last 19 years. Before joining the Karl Strauss team, Paul had been Brewmaster at Hang Ten Brewing Company as well as Hops! Bistro and Brewery. His responsibilities include overseeing the brewing staff, quality control, raw material procurement, production scheduling, beer training, and all other beer-related issues for the company. Paul has a deep passion for good beer and brewing techniques, and loves exploring all the possibilities of pairing beer and food. He has also been featured in the San Diego Beer News Portrait of a Brewer series. Paul received a diploma in Intensive Craft Brewing Science & Engineering with the first graduating class from the American Brewers Guild. Bill Holdenstern Baker Bill Holdenstern is a Baker and Facilities & Culinary Operations Management Expert based in San Francisco, California. He currently works for Bon Appétit Management Company as the Facilities & Culinary Operations Manager for Chase Center Arena. Since 2023, Bill has managed kitchen operations and food safety tracking systems across 4 production kitchens, 50+ concession stands, 7 exclusive clubs, and 76 premium suites for the arena. Prior to that, he was the Co-Owner of East Bay Pie Co. in San Francisco, California. East Bay Pie Co has been profiled in The Manual, Purple List, and Nosh. Bill has over 15 years of experience in the food industry, and trained with chefs in multiple restaurants. He received an MA from University of San Francisco in Sports Management and studied business at Bunker Hill Community College. Lisa Jubilee Certified Dietician-Nutritionist Lisa Jubilee is a Certified Dietician-Nutritionist and the Co-Founder of Living Proof Nutrition Strength Pilates in New York City. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in sustainable weight loss and disease prevention. She earned a Masters in Nutrition and Dietetics from New York University and a BS in Chemistry, Foods, and Nutrition from Rutgers University. She also published an e-book, Self Care = Health Care: A Health Empowerment Protocol From a Nutritionist’s Perspective. She has been ranked as one of the Best Nutritionists in New York City by Expertise.com since 2017. Hema Agwu Nigerian Chef Hema Agwu, known as “The Suya Guy,” is a Nigerian Chef and the Co-Founder of Brooklyn Suya. A self-taught chef, he specializes in creating the perfect suya, a traditional Nigerian spice blend. Chef Agwu expanded his palette with flavors from Morocco, Eritrea, and the U.S. Over his career, he’s been featured in several publications and on The Cooking Channel’s The Spice of Life. Josiah Salyer Chef Josiah Salyer is a Chef based in Austin, Texas. He offers over 20 years of diverse culinary expertise and currently works as a private chef for various clients. He has trained under three master chefs and two celebrity chefs, including Lorena Garcia from the television show Top Master Chef. He is an active member of the American Culinary Federation. His culinary knowledge spans a wide range of flavors and disciplines, and his work combines both technical levels of flavor and Southern home cooking classics. He aims to bring master-level cooking to his clients and train other chefs to embrace freedom in their cooking. He received his Associate’s degree in Culinary Arts and Chef Training at the International Culinary Center. Jalpa Sheth Registered Dietitian and Nutritionist Jalpa Sheth is a Registered Dietitian and Nutritionist and the Founder of Jalpa Sheth Nutrition & Wellness. With over seven years of experience, she specializes in weight management, medical nutrition therapy, sports nutrition, vegetarian and vegan nutrition, and wellness nutrition. She holds a Master’s degree in Health & Nutrition from Brooklyn College, CUNY, and a Certificate of Training in Adult Weight Management from the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics, CDR. Derricka Clayton Personal Chef Derricka Clayton is a Personal Chef based in Dallas, Texas. As the owner of Chef Derricka, she offers luxury catering, private dining, and personal chef services. Her menus span a range of cuisines, including Southern and Creole, and dietary preferences, including plant-based, vegan, keto, and gluten-free. Chef Derricka has been featured on Food Network and interviewed about her cooking on NBC Dallas Fort-Worth Channel 5 Texas Today. She graduated with High Honors from the Escoffier School of Culinary Arts. Sashee Chandran Tea Expert Sashee Chandran is a tea expert and the founder of Tea Drops, based in Encinitas, California. Founded in 2015, Tea Drops is an innovative tea company producing bagless, loose-leaf, single-serve tea condensed into mighty drops that are steeped and ready to drink in seconds. Tea Drops are made with USDA organic and ethically sourced ingredients, are proudly made in the US, and can be found in over 2,000 retail stores and online. Tea Drops was named one of Shopify’s fastest-growing DTC websites in 2021. They have been featured on Forbes, Good Morning America, and Oprah Magazine and are loved by female giants like Chrissy Teigen, Tory Burch, and Michelle Obama. Sashee has also created an amazing online community of over 200k tea lovers. Sashee also has experience working in Silicon Valley, leading digital marketing and market research campaigns for Fortune 100 brands. She received her BA in Economics from UC Irvine. Christopher Lucchese Certified Sommelier Christopher Lucchese is a Certified Sommelier affiliated with Home Somm, a Los Angeles, California-based business that does private wine tastings, education and paired wine dinners. Christopher was also a Sommelier for Michael Mina's Bourbon Steak, a Michelin-rated restaurant for three years. He is a Level 4 Diploma Student with the WSET (Wine & Spirit Education Trust). He is also a Certified Sommelier by the Court of Master Sommeliers and has trained with the Wine Scholar Guild and The Culinary Institute of America.  He took two semesters at UC Davis for winemaking, viticulture and enology. Emilee Bryant Coffee Expert and Latte Artist Emilee Bryant is a Coffee Expert, Youtuber, and Latte Artist based in Brooklyn, New York. She spent years building her teaching skills as a Coffee Educator for Counter Culture Coffee, a coffee roasting company that has training and education centers across the country. She is also a multi award-winning latte artist. She won the Latte Art World Championship Open twice in 2019 and the Barista League: Online, Season II, among various competitions throughout her career. Emilee’s signature design is a hollow heart using the negative space in a latte. She is also deeply invested in the technical side of what it means to be a barista, and is constantly exploring the methods in which a simple bean becomes a cup of coffee. She has cultivated an active online community of fellow coffee enthusiasts, and creates content for her over 100K subscribers on YouTube and 100K followers on Instagram on coffee trends, latte art tutorials, and the fun of the coffee industry. Steve Schwartz Master Tea Blender and Founder of Art of Tea Steve Schwartz is a Master Tea Blender and the Founder of Art of Tea based in Los Angeles, California. He studied preventative medicine at the Ayurvedic Institute which first sparked his interest in the homeopathic impact of plants on the body and mind. With over 20 years of experience, Steve has lectured sold out tea blending classes for World Tea Conventions and frequently travels to offer educational programs on tea and tea blending. He is the best selling author of his book, Art of Tea: A Journey of Ritual, Discovery, and Impact. He also worked as a Tea Blending Program Developer for the World Tea Expo, and served as a Tasting Judge, Evaluator and Panelist for World Tea Expo Entries of Teas and Blends in 2016. Art of Tea is an award-winning importer and wholesaler of organic and specialty teas, and their tea club is a 2 time winner of Food & Wine’s best overall tea subscription. Steve has been featured in Forbes, the LA Times, LA Magazine, and more. Melissa Salazar Certified Tea Master and Blend Specialist Melissa Salazar is a Certified Tea Master, Blend Specialist, and Tea Educator based in Gilbert, Arizona. With over 12 years of experience, Melissa founded Red Zen Tea, creating artisan tea blends, workshops, and mindful tea tasting experiences to help others discover the amazing benefits of tea. Most recently, she has developed speciality organic desert tea blends and tea rubs for cooking. Through the International Tea Masters Association, she became a certified tea sommelier, tea master, and blend specialist in 2013. She now works as an Assistant Executive ITMA Trainer, facilitating tea certification classes and workshops. Melissa graduated with a BS in Exercise, Nutrition and Wellness from the Cal State East Bay College of Business and Economics and is also a certified meditation practitioner. Ian Heydecke Culinary & Fitness Content Creator Ian Heydecke is a Culinary Content Creator and Fitness Blogger based in New York City, NY. With over 12k subscribers on YouTube and 15k followers on Instagram, he documents culinary adventures, workout routines, and his personal health journey. Robert McKeon Aloe Coffee Scientist Robert McKeon Aloe is a Data Scientist based in San Jose, CA. With a background in computer science and data analytics, Robert set out to apply data science techniques to create the best coffee, with a special focus on espresso and coffee roasting. Robert started writing a blog about coffee and later expanded into YouTube, sharing everything from tools, tips, best practices, and more. He has also written two books on the topic, Engineering Better Espresso: Data Drive Coffee and Advanced Espresso: Elements of Coffee. Robert has a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Notre Dame and has worked for Apple for over 10 years, specializing in computer vision and machine learning. Charles Webb Culinary Director and Private Chef Charles Webb is a culinary director, private chef and content creator based in Chicago, Illinois. Charles is the founder of the award-winning, private catering business, Avanti Gourmet Catering, and was voted the #1 Private Chef in Chicago. He is also the host and creator of the digital series, #ChefOnTour, combining his passions for travel and international cuisine. Charles has been featured in publications such as Destination Luxury, FOUR Magazine, Michigan Avenue Magazine, and 10thingsilove.com. William Dissen Chef and Restaurateur William Dissen is a chef and restaurateur based in Asheville, North Carolina. With over 15 years of experience, he is the founder of four award-winning restaurant concepts: The Market Place, Billy D’s Fried Chicken, Little Gem, and Haymaker. William was an early pioneer of the farm-to-table and ocean sustainability movements in the Southeastern, United States Appalachian region. He is a 2 times James Beard Foundation Award Nominee for Outstanding Restaurant in America and for Outstanding Chef in America. He also is the author of the cookbook Thoughtful Cooking: Recipes Rooted in the New South. Minh Nguyen, RD, MS Master's Degree, Nutritional Science, California State University Los Angeles Minh Nguyen is a Registered Dietitian based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Minh received a Masters in Nutritional Science from California State University, Los Angeles in 2015 and has worked as a nutrition consultant, health coach, and clinical dietitian. Michael Breach Coffee Expert and Latte Artist Michael Breach is a Coffee Expert and Latte Artist based in New York, New York. He is the founder of BaristArt, a mobile latte art entertainment business. Since 2012, Michael has been wowing audiences with his incredibly detailed live latte art. He has created over 20,000+ pieces of latte art and has been featured on Good Morning America, Rachael Ray, and the TODAY Show. BaristArt provides services for a variety of events, including press and influencer events, corporate summits, and large-scale conferences. Michael has had his work commissioned by some of the world's most notable A-list celebrities. BaristArt also creates sponsored content for brands and has created posts and videos for companies such as Amazon, Apple, Spotify, and Disney. BaristArt’s classes and workshops allow anyone to learn to try latte art for themselves. Michael has created a dynamic career out of his passion for coffee and creating art within it. Gary E. Hatch, PhD PhD in Biology, University of Utah Dr. Hatch is a retired Biological Scientist in North Carolina, who spent 38 years researching the biochemistry of the respiratory tract and its response to toxins and pollutants. He worked at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency from 1979-2015. Connie Martin, RD Registered Dietitian Connie Martin is a Registered Dietitian specializing in clinical nutrition in Georgia. She received her B.S. in Dietetics from Southeast Missouri State University in 1982. Melissa Stoner, RDN Registered Dietitian Melissa Stoner is a Registered Dietitian and Certified Personal Trainer in Colorado. She received her Registered Dietitian Nutritionist credential in 2010 and her National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) Personal Trainer Certification in 2012. Pasquale Martinelli Private Chef Pasquale Martinelli is a Private Chef and Founder and Executive Chef of Alloro, a private culinary concierge. Pasquale has over 20 years of experience and is known for his southern Italian cuisine and overall generous hospitality. He has a certificate in Nutrition Studies from Cornell University and has been featured on the Martha Stweart Show. Pasquale has degrees in Hospitality Management and Administration from the Hotel and Culinary institute at the IPSSAR Armando Perotti, Bari and IPSSEOA Consuls Pinto, Castellana Grotte. Ryan Hamby Regenerative Agriculture Expert Ryan Hamby is a Regenerative Agriculture Expert. Animals & Veterinary Care Pippa Elliott, MRCVS Veterinarian Dr. Elliott, BVMS, MRCVS is a veterinarian with over 30 years of experience in veterinary surgery and companion animal practice. She graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1987 with a degree in veterinary medicine and surgery. She has worked at the same animal clinic in her hometown for over 20 years. Ryan Corrigan, LVT, VTS-EVN Licensed Veterinary Technician Ryan Corrigan is a Licensed Veterinary Technician in California. She received her Bachelor of Science in Veterinary Technology from Purdue University in 2010. She is also a Member of the Academy of Equine Veterinary Nursing Technicians since 2011. Natalie Punt, DVM Veterinarian Dr. Natalie Punt is a Veterinarian and the Founder and CEO of mPet- a smart phone app for pet owners to store, manage and transfer their pets medical records and health information. She specializes in small animal emergency and general medicine and veterinary practice economics. Dr. Punt holds a BS in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from The University of California, Davis, an MS in Biochemistry from The University at Buffalo, and a DVM from Western University of Health Sciences. Melissa Nelson, DVM, PhD Veterinarian Dr. Nelson is a Veterinarian who specializes in Companion and Large Animal Medicine in Minnesota, where she has over 18 years of experience as a veterinarian in a rural clinic. She received her Doctor of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Minnesota in 1998. Lauren Baker, DVM, PhD Veterinarian Dr. Lauren Baker is a Veterinarian and Assistant Scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. With over 10 years in veterinary medicine, she specializes in the concept of “one health,” which uses insights from veterinary medicine to help human medical research. She holds a Ph.D. in Comparative Biomedical Sciences, a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, an MS in Comparative Biomedical Sciences, and a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Deanne Pawlisch, CVT, MA Certified Veterinary Technician Deanne Pawlisch is a Certified Veterinary Technician, who does corporate training for veterinary practices and has taught at the NAVTA-approved Veterinary Assistant Program at the Harper College in Illinois. Deanne has been a Board Member of the Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Foundation in San Antonio, Texas since 2011. She holds a BS in Anthropology from Loyola University and an MA in Anthropology from Northern Illinois University. Brian Bourquin, DVM Veterinarian Brian Bourquin, better known as “Dr. B” to his clients, is a Veterinarian and the Owner of Boston Veterinary Clinic, a pet health care and veterinary clinic with three locations, South End/Bay Village, the Seaport, and Brookline, Massachusetts. Boston Veterinary Clinic specializes in primary veterinary care, including wellness and preventative care, sick and emergency care, soft-tissue surgery, dentistry. The clinic also provides specialty services in behavior, nutrition, and alternative pain management therapies using acupuncture, and therapeutic laser treatments. Boston Veterinary Clinic is an AAHA (American Animal Hospital Association) accredited hospital and Boston’s first Fear Free Certified Clinic. Brian has over 19 years of veterinary experience and earned his Doctor of Veterinary Medicine from Cornell University. Beverly Ulbrich Dog Behaviorist & Trainer Beverly Ulbrich is a Dog Behaviorist and Trainer and the Founder of The Pooch Coach, a private dog training business based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She is a Certified CGC (Canine Good Citizen) Evaluator by the American Kennel Club and has served on the Board of Directors for the American Humane Association and Rocket Dog Rescue. She has been voted the best private dog trainer in the San Francisco Bay Area 4 times by SF Chronicle and by Bay Woof, and she has won 4 "Top Dog Blog" awards. She has also been featured on TV as a dog behavior expert. Beverly has over 18 years of dog behavior training experience and specializes in dog aggression and anxiety training. She has a Master of Business Administration from Santa Clara University and a BS from Rutgers University. Ray Spragley, DVM Veterinarian Dr. Ray Spragley is a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine and the Owner/Founder of Zen Dog Veterinary Care PLLC in New York. With experience in multiple institutions and private practices, Dr. Spragley’s specializations and interests include non-surgical management of cranial cruciate ligament tears, Intervertebral Disk Disease(IVDD), and pain management in osteoarthritis. Dr. Spragley holds a BS in Biology from SUNY Albany and has a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree (DVM) from Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine. He is also a Certified Canine Rehabilitation Therapist (CCRT) through the Canine Rehab Institute as well as a Certified Veterinary Acupuncturist (CVA) through Chi University. David Levin Professional Dog Walker & Trainer David Levin is the Owner of Citizen Hound, a professional dog walking business based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 9 years of professional dog walking and training experience, David's business has been voted the "Best Dog Walker SF" by Beast of the Bay for 2019, 2018, and 2017. Citizen Hound has also been ranked #1 Dog Walker by the SF Examiner and A-List in 2017, 2016, 2015. Citizen Hound prides themselves on their customer service, care, skill, and reputation. Roger J. Lederer, PhD Ornithologist Dr. Roger Lederer is an Ornithologist and the founder of Ornithology.com, an informative website about wild birds. Dr. Lederer has spent over 40 years teaching, studying, and writing about birds. He has traveled to over 100 countries to study birds. Dr. Lederer is an Emeritus Professor of Biological Sciences at California State University, Chico, and has been a Department Chair of Biological Sciences and Dean of the College of Natural Sciences. He has written more than 30 research papers and 10 books on birds and a textbook entitled “Ecology and Field Biology.” Dr. Lederer has consulted the BBC, National Geographic, National Public Radio, ABC News, the Guinness Book of World Records, and numerous other organizations and publications. Elisabeth Weiss Professional Dog Trainer Elisabeth Weiss is a Professional Dog Trainer and owner of Dog Relations NYC, a dog training service in New York, New York. Elisabeth relies on science-based, force-free, and reward-based techniques. Elisabeth offers behavior training, puppy manners, body awareness and injury prevention, diet, exercise and dog nutrition services. Her work has been featured in New York Magazine and on the Dog Save the People podcast. She also trained all the dogs in the movie "Heart of a Dog" by Laurie Anderson that features Elisabeth's journey with Laurie Anderson's and Lou Reed's dog Lolabelle and how her passion for playing the keyboards played a significant role in improving her quality of life after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Doug Ludemann Professional Aquarist Doug Ludemann is the owner and operator of Fish Geeks, LLC, an aquarium services company based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Doug has worked in the aquarium and fish-care industry for over 20 years, including having worked as a professional aquarist for the Minnesota Zoo and Shedd Aquarium in Chicago. He received his Bachelor of Science in Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior from the University of Minnesota. Audra Barrios Marine Biologist & Reptile Specialist Audra Barrios is a Marine Biologist and owner of Lick Your Eyeballs, a business offering experiences, reptiles, supplies and plants. With over 15 years of experience, Audra specializes in reptiles and exotic animals, environmental education, marine biology, conservation issues, and animal husbandry. Audra earned a BASc in Marine Biology from the University of California, Santa Cruz, and studied Natural Sciences at the College of Marin. She is the founder and Executive Director of Things That Creep, a non-profit dedicated to herptile conservation through education. She has spent the last nine years working as a biologist at the California Academy of Sciences. Lancy Woo Certified Pet Groomer Lancy Woo is a Certified Pet Groomer and the Owner of VIP Grooming, a pet grooming salon based in San Francisco, California. VIP Grooming has served San Francisco for over 35 years. Lancy received her pet grooming certification from the WWPSA (Western Word Pet Supply Association). VIP Grooming has been voted "Best in the Bay" in 2007, 2010, 2011, 2014, 2017, 2018, and 2019 and won Bay Woof’s "Beast of Bay" in 2014. In 2018, Lancy's work contributed to VIP Grooming's acceptance onto San Francisco's Office of Economic and Workforce Development's Legacy Business Registry. Belgin Altundag Certified Dog Trainer Belgin Altundag is a Certified Dog Trainer and the Owner of Happy Doggies Day Care/Day Camp in West Hollywood, California. A passionate animal lover, Belgin is knowledgeable about multiple training styles, including obedience training, problem-solving, activity training, and behavior modification. In addition to being an Animal Behavior College’s Certified Dog Trainer (ABCDT), Belgin has also completed the Training Cesar's Way Fundamentals of Dog Behavior and Training Programs 1 and 2 and is certified by the American Red Cross in Cat and Dog First-Aid. Molly DeVoss Certified Feline Training and Behavior Specialist & Certified Cat Behavior Consultant Molly DeVoss is a Certified Feline Training and Behavior Specialist (CFTBS), a Certified Cat Behavior Consultant (CCBC), a Fear Free Certified Trainer (FFCT), and the Founder of Cat Behavior Solutions. Molly specializes in using positive reinforcement to modify and prevent unwanted behaviors in cats and reduce cat shelter surrender. Molly has sat on the Dallas Animal Advisory committee since 2013 and was voted one of the Top 12 Extraordinary Cat Behaviorists of 2020 by Catpetclub.com. She is certified by both the Animal Behavior Institute and the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants. She is also the host of the weekly podcast Cat Talk Radio. Rendy Schuchat Certified Professional Dog Trainer Rendy Schuchat is a Certified Professional Dog Trainer and the Owner of the largest dog training facility, Anything Is Pawzible, based in Chicago, Illinois. With over 20 years of experience, Rendy specializes in positive dog training and behavior modification to help people build and strengthen their relationships with their dogs. She holds a BA in Psychology and Communications from the University of Iowa, an MA in Psychology from Roosevelt University, and a Certification in Dog Obedience Instruction from Animal Behavior Training and Associates. Rendy was voted one of the Best/Favorite Dog Trainers in Chicago by Chicagoland Tails Reader’s Choice Awards multiple times and was voted Chicago Magazine’s “Best Dog Whisperer” in 2015. Colleen Demling-Riley, CPDT-KA, CBCC-KA, CDBC Canine Behavior Consultant Colleen Demling-Riley (CPDT-KA, CBCC-KA, CDBC) is a Canine Behavior Consultant and the Founder of Pawtopia Dog Training. With more than 20 years of experience, she specializes in creating and customizing dog management programs for dog owners. She is a Certified Pet Dog Trainer-Knowledge Assessed, Certified Behavior Consultant Canine-Knowledge Assessed, Certified Dog Behavior Consultant, and American Kennel Club Canine Good Citizen Evaluator. Colleen is a member of the International Association of Canine Professionals and has been a featured expert in national media including the New York Times, Woman’s Day, Readers Digest, Cosmopolitan, and Yahoo.com. Sheri Williams Certified Dog Trainer Sheri Williams is a Certified Dog Trainer and Behaviorist and the Owner of sheriwilliams.com, a business that specializes in teaching veterans how to turn their dogs into service dogs or emotional support animals to assist with PTSD. Based in the Los Angeles, California metro area, Sheri has over 20 years of dog training experience and also runs a general dog training practice specializing in rehabilitating dogs through positive reinforcement training techniques. She is certified by The Animal Behavior and Training Association. Alisa Rassin Exotics Veterinarian Alias Rassin is an Exotics Veterinarian and the Owner of The Exotic Animal Hospital of Pennsylvania in Lansdowne, Pennsylvania. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in treating reptiles, birds, and small mammals. She holds a Veterinariae Medicinae Doctoris from The University of Pennsylvania and a BS in Veterinary Biomedical and Clinical Sciences from Penn State University. She was also certified by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons. Russell Hartstein, CDBC, CPDT Certified Dog & Cat Trainer Russell Hartstein is a Certified Dog & Cat Trainer and CEO of Fun Paw Care in Los Angeles, California. With over 25 years of training, nutrition, boarding, and daycare experience, Russell and the Fun Paw Care team provide the most current, humane, and science-based methods utilizing force-free positive reinforcement to train and care for pets. Russell is an author for PetMD, Chewy, and Dogster. He is also regularly cited in publications from various organizations, including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA). He is a Certified Dog Behavior Consultant with the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants and a Certified Pet Dog Trainer. He received his bachelor’s degree in History and Economics from Binghamton University. Ty Brown Dog Trainer Ty Brown is a Dog Behaviorist and Trainer and the Owner of Ty the Dog Guy, a business that provides dog training through digital resources (podcasts, web series, and online courses) along with in-person dog training. Ty has over 17 years of experience in dog training and specializes in both mitigating unruly pet behavior and service dog training. Ty has been awarded the "Best of State Award" for dog training in Utah ten times and his work has been featured in ABC, NBC, CBS, Spike TV, and Entrepreneur Magazine. Jeff Jones Bird Specialist Jeff Jones is a Bird Specialist based in Nashville, Tennessee. He is the writer of BirdOculars, a website dedicated to helping people become better birders. He has over 18 years of experience and specializes in feeding birds and wildlife. Jeff experiments to find ways to encourage birds he wants to study and his website helps others to do the same. Jennifer Damon Professional Dog Trainer Jennifer Damon is a Professional Dog Trainer and the Owner of Love for Paws Dog Training in Richmond, VA. With over 10 years of experience training dogs, Jennifer specializes in determining the psychology that motivates dog behavior. As a supporting member of the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants, Jennifer is passionate about improving the communication between owners and their pets through gentle, scientifically-backed methods. She holds a BFA in Communication Arts from the University of Montevallo and a Certificate in Canine Behavior Consulting from The International College of Canine Studies. Brian Starr Rat Specialist & Breeder Brian Starr is a Rat Specialist and Breeder and the Owner of OC Dumbos out of Central Florida. As America’s only breeder of pet Roof Rats, Brian and OC Dumbos specialize in rat breeding, training, and care. Years of experience and several generations of careful breeding have allowed Brian and OC Dumbos to create a line of tame Roof Rats, bred to make friendly, fun pets. In addition to offering rat accessories and training resources, OC Dumbos also offers free Roof Rat adoptions. Hayley Heartfield Bird Specialist Hayley Heartfield is a Bird Specialist and the Owner of All About Birds, a Pet Bird Shop in Montgomery County, Texas. Hayley specializes in pet bird care, behavior, training, and breeding. Hayley studied Animal Science at Texas A&M. About Birds carries many species of birds and offers grooming and boarding services as well as bird care products. Jamie Freyer, DVM Licensed Veterinarian Dr. Jamie Freyer is a Licensed Doctor of Veterinary Medicine based in Washington. With over ten years of experience in clinical practice and industry, she specializes in veterinary medicine and surgery, animal behavior, and animal genetics. Dr. Freyer holds a BS in Life Science from The University of Portland and a DVM from Oregon State University. Marie Lin Licensed Pet Groomer Marie Lin is a Licensed Pet Groomer and the Owner of Marie's Pet Grooming, a grooming salon based in New York City. Marie has over 10 years of pet grooming experience specializing in dogs and cats. She earned her pet grooming certification from the American Academy of Pet Grooming New York in 2009 and is also a member of the National Dog Groomers Association of America. She earned a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Hawaii Pacific University in 2007. Indigo Will Professional Canine Expert Indigo Will is a Canine Expert, Trainer, and Founder and Owner of K9-INDIGO® Holistic Dog Training LLC™, a dog training service in Los Angeles, California. Indigo specializes in understanding canine temperament and dispositions to allow canines to reach their full potential. He has studied various methods of training and philosophies to develop a unique, innovative, and result-driven method for canine behavior training. Anthony Menendez Reptile Expert & Animal Sanctuary Anthony Menendez is a Reptile Expert and Founder of Shadow's Reptiles. Anthony founded Shadow's Reptiles in 2018, starting as a small tortoise breeder in Miami, Florida. He quickly gained traction on social media and started taking in mistreated and unwanted reptiles. Shadow's sanctuary has turned into a haven for more than just reptiles and has taken in a variety of birds, amphibians, invertebrates, and mammals like prairie dogs, sugar gliders, lemurs and more. Anthony also does educational shows for schools and children’s birthday parties to spread love and awareness for animals. Chikezie Onyianta Pest Control Specialist Chikezie Onyianta is a Pest Control Specialist and the Owner of EcoFusion Pest Control, serving communities in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York. With over 5 years of experience, he specializes in pest control in both residential and commercial spaces. A graduate of Essex County College, Chikezie and EcoFusion assist in rodent, roach, and ant pest control as well as bed bug services. Lauren Novack Certified Dog Behavior Consultant Lauren Novack is a Certified Dog Behavior Consultant at Behavior Vets NYC where she helps fearful, anxious, and aggressive pets and their owners. She has completed coursework for her MS in Applied Behavior Analysis at Hunter College. Lauren’s research explores the intersection between training practices and animal welfare. She currently serves on the Editorial Advisory Board for Daily Paws and has appeared on Fox & Friends, Rachael Ray, and various news outlets with her dog Grayson. Jeff Jensen Reptile Specialist Jeff Jensen is a Reptile Specialist and the Owner of The Reptile Zone out of Bend, Oregon. With decades of experience with reptiles and wildlife, Jeff specializes in providing advice and guidance on proper reptile care. As a former science teacher and employee of the San Antonio Zoo and an accomplished herpetologist, Jeff’s dedication to knowledge and ethical pet trade practices led to The Reptile Zone being awarded a “Mark of Excellence” Award by Intrepid Marketing in 2018. Beatrice Tavakoli Professional Dog Trainer Beatrice Tavakoli is a Professional Dog Trainer and the Founder/Owner of TAKA Dog Walk in New Jersey. A lifetime dog lover and enthusiast, Beatrice is committed to providing animals with hands-on service dedicated to daily love, adventure, and socialization. As insured and bonded dog walkers, Beatrice, and her staff provide a multitude of services including doggie social hour, day hikes, training, puppy care, canine special events, in-home pet care, boarding, cat care, and customized dog walks. Marlene Mc'Cohen Parrot Advocate Marlene Mc'Cohen is a Parrot Advocate based in Los Angeles, California. As the owner of Parrot Station, she possesses extensive knowledge of parrot care and provides essential products for the well-being of birds. Leveraging her 25 years of experience, Marlene established a popular YouTube channel dedicated to educating bird owners on the importance of interactive relationships and promoting an "Engaged Not Caged" existence for parrots. Her hashtag #EngagedNotCaged has generated a significant social media impact, surpassing 80 million shares on social media. Sophie Amphlett Professional Dog Trainer Sophie Amphlett is a Professional Dog Trainer and Service Dog Coach with over five years of experience. Sophie graduated from CATCH Canine Trainers Academy’s Master Course with Distinction in 2016. She is also a Certified Trick Dog Instructor (CTDI) and a Certified Fun Scent Games Instructor (DN-FSG1). Sophie serves as a volunteer adoption counselor and dog walker for Adopt-A-Pet as well. Carrie Seay, MS-CABAC, KPA-CTP, CBCC-KA Feline Behavior Consultant Carrie Seay is a Feline Behavior Consultant and the Owner of Carrie Pawpins based in Phoenix, Arizona. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in working with cat owners to prevent and eliminate cat behavioral issues. Carrie holds a Bachelor’s degree in Biology from Northern Arizona University and a Master’s degree in Companion Animal Behavior Analysis & Counseling from The American College of Applied Science. She has multiple certifications from well-known training programs like Karen Pryor academy. Dominik Feichtner Dog Trainer & Behaviorist Dominik Feichtner is a Professional Dog Trainer and Behaviorist and the Owner of The Dog Behaviorist NYC out of New York, New York. With over eight years of experience working with dogs, Dominik specializes in general obedience, behavior modification, and puppy training. His commitment to a balanced, common-sense approach led to his recognition as one of the “Best Dog Trainers in Brooklyn” and one of the “Best Dog Trainers in NYC” by Pooch and Harmony in 2020. Tom Robertson Dog Breeding Specialist Tom Robertson is a Dog Breeding Specialist and the Owner of Prize Poodles and Doodles. With over 20 years of experience, he specializes in breeding doodles. Tom has also received additional educational training in dog grooming, boarding, and training. Dee Hoult Certified Dog Behavior Consultant Dee Hoult is the CEO of Applause Your Paws, Inc., South Florida's largest privately-owned dog training company. With over 15 years of experience, Dee specializes in correcting dog behavior problems by providing engaging, positive education and non-intimidating training. Dee holds a BS in Marine Science and Biology and an MBA from the University of Miami. She is a credentialed Certified Professional Dog Trainer through the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers and a credentialed Certified Dog Behavior Consultant (CDBC) through the International Association of Applied Behavior Consultants (IAABC). In 2018, Dee was a finalist for Woman of the Year for the Women in the Pet Industry Awards. Rita Reimers Cat Behaviorist Rita Reimers is a Cat Behavior Expert and a Co-Founder of Cat Behavior Alliance, a cat behavior consulting service. With over 30 years of experience as a multi-cat owner and cat rescue worker, Rita specializes in helping people better understand cats and find solutions to behavior issues. She received a BS in Computer Science and Personnel Relations Management and studied at the Animal Behavior College. Rita co-hosts a radio show on Pet Life Radio, “19 Cats and Counting,” and co-hosts a YouTube series, “Let’s Talk Cats.” She is also the co-author of the cat behavior blog, “Kitty Korner” for Litter Genie. Rita also writes for “A New Cattitude” for Catster Magazine, and is a contributor to be.Chewy.com. She is a supporting member of the International Association of Animal Behaviorists (IAABC). Jaimie Scott Dog Owner Trainer Jaimie Scott has been training dog owners as the Owner of Jaimie Scott Dog Training in Sacramento, California for the past 15 years. Jaimie meets clients for 1-on-1 training, group classes (owners only, no dogs), as well as live video classes. Jaimie has published videos, blog articles, and eBooks to share tips for training and his personalized insight into dog behavior. With a focus on training the owners, Jaimie believes that dogs need to know who’s in control at any given time in order to feel secure and be happy. Jaimie holds a BS in Mathematics and Computer Science from Pacific University. Toni Woods Professional Dog Trainer Toni Woods is a Professional Dog Trainer in Washington DC. With over 15 years of experience, Toni specializes in improving the relationship between dogs and their families and easing the suffering of dogs experiencing separation anxiety. Toni holds a BS in Biology from Wittenberg University and taught biology for nine years. She now dedicates her life to helping dogs with separation anxiety. Mark Garcia Certified Dog Trainer Mark Garcia is a Certified Dog Training Specialist and the Founder of Rosewood K9 based in Los Angeles, California. Mark specializes in dog training, boarding, and day care services. He uses scientifically proven methods for dog training that includes behavior and obedience training, confidence building, structured leadership, and positive puppy training. Cameron Thompsen Dog Trainer Cameron Thompsen is a Dog Trainer and Human Coach, as well as the Owner and Founder of Hope2K9 Foundation. With nearly two decades of experience, she specializes in working with dogs and their owners on behavior issues ranging from severe anxiety, reactivity, as well as aggression and fear-based problems. She works with all dogs at Hope2K9 so that they are fully trained before adoption, and provides lifelong support to dog owners after adoption. Nicole Larocco-Skeehan Dog Trainer Nicole Larocco-Skeehan is a Dog Trainer and the Owner of Philly Unleashed in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Nicole has over 25 years of experience working with animals and currently specializes in group and private dog training and behavior modification. Nicole’s business has been named the "Best of Philadelphia" and she is the author of “The Teaching Dog: Partnering with Dogs for Instruction, Socialization, and Demonstration in Your Training Practice.” She was also on the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers Board of Directors. Nicole holds a Bachelor of Science in Marketing and Advertising from Robert Morris University. Star of Texas Veterinary Hospital Veterinarians Star of Texas Veterinary Hospital is a team of four veterinarians based in Austin, Texas. Star of Texas Veterinary Hospital offers medical assessments, dentistry, ultrasonography, flea control, radiology, and cardiology services to dogs, cats, and pocket pets. Star of Texas Veterinary Hospital is Austin’s first Fear Free Certified Practice and was awarded "1st Runner Up in Culture" by the 2020 Best of the Best Austin Official Choice Awards. They were a Best of the Best winner in Austin's Official Community Choice Awards. Star of Texas Veterinary Hospital's veterinarians are members of the American Association of Feline Practitioners, the Texas Veterinary Medical Association, and the American Veterinary Medical Association. Daniel Lioy-Ryan, PhD Animal Behaviorist Dr. Daniel Lioy-Ryan is an Animal Behaviorist and the Co-Founder of Cats in the City. With over a decade of experience, he specializes in understanding animal behavior, safely grooming cats, and working with cats at all life stages. Dr. Lioy-Ryan holds a PhD in Neuroscience from The Oregon Health & Science University. Joey Lusvardi Cat Training & Behavior Expert Joey is a Cat Training & Behavior Expert and Owner of Class Act Cats based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. With five years of experience, Joey specializes in feline behavioral issues and customized treatment plans with the goal of integrating cats into their homes and families. Joey is a Certified Cat Behavior Consultant through the IAABC and a member of the Pet Professional Guild. Paragon Pest Control Pest Control Company Paragon Pest Control is a Pest Control Company based in Grand Prairie, Texas. The team at Paragon Pest Control has a background in entomology and uses customizable technology that suits the specific needs of clients. They specialize in treating and preventing pest issues caused by rodents, bed bugs, termites, spiders, ants, and mosquitoes. Paragon Pest Control brings together outstanding customer service with the newest technologies and products available to keep pests in the past. Jaime Nalezny, DVM Exotic Animal Veterinarian Dr. Jaime Nalezny is an exotic animal veterinarian with over 15 years of experience, focusing on the care of birds, reptiles, amphibians, and exotic small mammals. Dr. Nalezny founded The Iguana Relocation Network and is on the board of directors for Midwest Avian Adoption & Rescue Services. She graduated from the University of Minnesota College of Veterinary Medicine in 2005. Francine Miller Certified Animal Behavior Counselor Francine Miller is an Applied Animal Behavior Counselor and Founder of Call Ms Behaving, a behavior counseling service for dogs and cats in San Diego, California. With over 16 years of experience, Francine specializes in treating behavior problems such as aggression, separation anxiety, phobias, fear reactions, destructiveness, urine marking, and compulsive behaviors. She uses a behavioral management and modification plan that is positive reinforcement only. She holds a Diploma in Canine Behavior Counseling from the American College of Applied Science (ACAS). Francine has completed all coursework toward an MS in Applied Animal Behavior Science and Family Counseling for Companion Animals from the American College of Applied Science (ACAS). She is a certified Associate of the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants (IAABC) and a member of the Pet Professional Guild. Dani Pedraza Professional Dog Trainer Dani Pedraza is a Professional Dog Trainer and a Co-Owner of The Big City Woof Walker with presences in NYC and Chicago. Dani is passionate about providing personal, quality pet service and treatment and is very knowledgeable about training dogs using positive reinforcement and a force-free approach. As a Certified Dog Trainer (CCDT), Dani graduated from CATCH Canine Trainer Academy’s Master Course program. Ovidiu Stoica Professional Dog Trainer Ovidiu Stoica is a Professional Dog Trainer and the Founder/Owner of NYC Doggies. With over 20 years of professional experience working with dogs, Ovidiu is well versed in providing various dog care services and specializes in dog obedience and behavioral training. Ovidiu and his staff, who have more than 45 years of cumulative experience in the NYC dog walking business, provide personalized dog services including dog training, walking, hiking, boarding, sitting, and puppy care. Jessica Rude Equine Expert Jessica Rude is an Equine Expert currently working on a cutting horse ranch in Valley View, Texas as well as a horseback riding center in Princeton, Texas. Previously, she was a Trail Guide and Wrangler at a camp and retreat center In Dallas, Texas, and an Equine Breeding Barn Manager at a reining ranch in Tioga, Texas. Jessica holds a Bachelor’s degree in Animal Science with an emphasis in Equine Science from Tarleton State University. She has studied equine nutrition, reproduction, and management. Jessica specializes in equine breeding as well as instructing horseback riding lessons, leading trail rides, recognizing equine illnesses, and administering treatments. Kathy Richardson Certified Horsemanship Instructor Kathy Richardson is a Certified Horsemanship Instructor and the Owner of the Rusty Bar Ranch in Roy, Washington. With over 40 years of industry experience, Kathy runs a 30-acre licensed facility where she teaches lessons and clinics related to horse care and health. Kathy has been a Certified Horsemanship Association instructor since 2008. She is also a Horse Agility accredited trainer and judge, an Equine Trail Sports judge, and holds a Western Dressage Association of America Trainer Certificate. Kathy is the owner of the only riding simulator in the Northwest, a Wonder Horse named Sheena, that is trained in dressage and is also used to teach Western lessons. Her lessons are rooted in her belief that successfully communicating with horses requires building a strong relationship based on mutual trust and respect. Kathy was named the 2021 Certified Horsemanship Instructor of the Year. Kateryna Zabashta Dog Breeder Kateryna Zabashta is a Dog Breeder and the Owner of Emma’s Frenchies in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over five years of experience, Kateryna specializes in dog nutrition, general care, and breeding French Bulldogs. Brad Greene Fear Free Certified Professional Dog Trainer Brad is a Certified Professional Dog Trainer (CPDT-KA) and a Fear Free Certified Professional. He is the owner of Fearless Dogs, which is based in the Bay Area of California and has a 5-star rating. Brad specializes in helping clients and their dogs work through challenges using effective and humane behavior change methods, enabling their relationship to thrive. His greyhound, Asher was featured in Greyhound Rescue’s 2022 calendar. Melissa Muñoz Animal Trainer Melissa Munoz is an Animal Trainer and the Owner of Pawsitive Perspective Animal Training. She has more than 16 years of experience in reward-based animal training, exotic animal management, and wildlife education. Melissa holds degrees in Animal Behavior and Ethology, Wildlife Education, and Animal Management from the Exotic Animal Training and Management Program at Moorpark College. Shawn Riley Canine Trainer & Behaviorist Shawn Riley is a Canine Trainer & Behaviorist based in Tualatin, Oregon. With over 40 years of experience, Shawn trains people to properly establish and maintain leadership roles with their canine companions. Shawn has trained with several acclaimed canine experts and refined The Dog Way training methods through experience and observation of dogs' natural interactions within their groups. Shawn has appeared on several local TV shows and was recruited by National Geographic as the on-set Behavioral Advisor for a national video series called “My Dog Ate What?” Haley Yates Dog Behavior & Training Expert Haley Yates is a Dog Behavior & Training Expert and the Founder of Petra K9 Dog Training in San Jose, California. With several years of experience, she specializes in behavior modification as well as obedience training. She is an in-home dog trainer and teaches owners how to train their own dogs. She’s previously worked at several dog training facilities and taken classes to perfect her techniques. Alexis Toriello Certified Dog Behavior Consultant Alexis Toriello is a Certified Dog Behavior Consultant and the Founder and CEO of Zen Dog Training in New York. Her time working as a canine behavior specialist in various animal shelters has made her knowledgeable in assessing, rehabilitating, and training dogs. In addition to being an Associate Certified Dog Behavior Consultant (ACDBC), Alexis is a Certified Professional Dog Trainer - Knowledge Assessed (CPDT-KA) and a Master’s Degree Candidate in Animal Behavior and Conservation at Hunter College. She is certified by the American Red Cross in Canine First-Aid and CPR and has endorsements from numerous hospitals and clinics and the Washington Humane Society. Ted & JoAnn Dawson Equestrian Experts Ted and JoAnn Dawson are Equestrian Experts based in North East, Maryland. Ted and JoAnn gained years of business and horse experience operating Carousel Farm & Riding Stables in Delaware from 1986 to 1998, and in 1999, they opened Fairwinds Farm & Stables, offering riding lessons, trail rides, equestrian summer camp, horse-drawn carriages, pony rides, and special events including weddings and birthday parties. Fairwinds Farm has been selected as a Maryland Horse Discovery Center and was inducted into the Cecil County Business Hall of Fame. It has also been awarded Tourism Business of the Year and Cecil County Outstanding Farm Operation. Fairwinds Farm is a “destination” farm and B&B, featured on Good Morning America, in The New York Times, The Baltimore Sun and Country Woman, Horse & Rider, and Maryland Life Magazines. The Dawsons both teach Equine Science classes at Cecil College, are members of the Maryland Farm Bureau and Maryland Horse Council, and work as animal wranglers for film and TV. JoAnn has a B.S. degree in Animal Science and Ag Education and a Master's Degree in Education from the University of Delaware. She is the author of the Lucky Foot Stable series of books for ages 8-13, and screenwriter of the film Cream of the Crop, now streaming on Amazon Prime. Ted holds a B.S. degree from the University of Delaware in Business Administration and Finance. Terryl Daluz Owner, Wash My Dog Pet Grooming Terryl Daluz is the Co-owner of Wash My Dog LLC Pet Grooming, a pet grooming business based in the Los Angeles, California area. Terryl, along with co-owner Andrea Carter, has over three years of pet grooming and management experience. Wash My Dog and its certified pet groomers and bathers specialize in providing both a safe and welcoming environment for all animals they service. Allison Weeks Dog Training Professional Allison Weeks is a Dog Training Professional, as well as the Owner & Operator of Peticularly Perfect. With more than 12 years of experience, she specializes in dog walking, dog psychology, and dog behavior. Peticularly Perfect won the Best of Escondido business award for the pet care category in 2020 and Allison was featured as the owner of Peticularly Perfect in SD Voyager online magazine. Allison earned a Bachelor's Degree from Kaplan University. Corinna Bhasin Dog Behavior & Training Expert Corinna Bhasin is a Dog Behavior & Training Expert, as well as the Owner of LovePup Training and Care LLC. She specializes in reward-based dog training that is customized to each dog’s personality and needs. She’s a Certified Professional Dog Trainer (CPDT-KA), approved by AKC for AKC S.T.A.R & CGC Evaluator, and trained in Fear Free Shelter Program. She also holds a Master’s Degree from Johnson and Wales University and a Bachelor’s Degree from Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. Jennifer Schneider Dog Behavior and Training Expert Jennifer Schneider is a Dog Behavior and Training Expert, as well as the Owner of Pick of the Litter Dog Training. With over 25 years of experience, she specializes in positive, dog-friendly training. She holds a BA in Psychology with an Emphasis on Animal Behavior from the University of Washington, and she’s a Certified Professional Dog Trainer (CPDT). David Schmucker Dog Trainer David Schmucker is a Dog Trainer and a Senior Trainer at Sidewalk Dog Training in Washington D.C. With over 17 years of experience, David specializes in canine training programs such as dog aggression training, dog behavioral correction, and dog separation anxiety training. David holds a BS in Personnel & Labor Management from the University of Maryland. Stephanie Abrams, DVM, MS, DACVD Board Certified Veterinary Dermatologist Dr. Stephanie Abrams is a Board Certified Veterinary Dermatologist with over eight years of veterinary experience. She specializes in treating skin conditions in cats and dogs. Dr. Abrams earned a BA from Skidmore College and a DVM from Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine. After earning her DVM, she completed an internship at Tufts Veterinary Emergency Treatment & Specialties, followed by a residency in Dermatology at the Ohio State University School of Veterinary Medicine. Tabitha Kucera Registered Veterinary Technician & Cat and Dog Behavior Consultant Tabitha Kucera is a Registered Veterinary Technician & Cat and Dog Behavior Consultant and the Owner of Chirrups and Chatter Cat and Dog Behavior Consulting and Training in Cleveland, Ohio. Tabitha has over ten years of experience working at animal veterinary hospitals, farm sanctuaries, and cat and dog rescue centers. Tabitha has helped to develop training and behavior programs for various veterinary hospitals and shelters and works as a consultant for many shelters and private veterinary practices. Her teaching credentials include lecturing at regional and national levels and at multiple veterinary technology programs. She is a Fear Free certified speaker, a Fear Free Practice Certification Consultant, a behavior consultant for Cat Pawsitive Pro, and host of the podcast, Tails from a Vet Tech. She currently serves on the board of the Pet Professional Guild’s Cat Committee and is the President of the Society of Veterinary Behavior Technicians. She is an Elite Fear Free and Low-Stress Handling Certified Registered Veterinary Technician, a certified cat behavior consultant, a Karen Pryor Academy certified training partner, and has a Veterinary Technician Specialist (VTS) designation in behavior. Kinsey Moses Dog Breeder Kinsey Moses is a Dog Breeder and the Co-Founder of Haystack Mountain Bernedoodles in Mead, Colorado. With 20 years of experience between her, her husband Sam, and her mother, they specialize in ethical and premium dog breeding, which prioritizes the health, conformation, and upbringing of each dog in their program. Kinsey earned her Bachelor's degree in Integrative Physiology from the University of Colorado Boulder, and her husband Sam holds a BS in Kinesiology from San Diego State University and a Master's in Applied Exercise Science from Concordia University Chicago. John Donovan Dog Behavior & Training Expert John Donvan is a Dog Behavior & Training Expert and the Owner of Donovan’s Dogs in Hoboken, New Jersey. With over 10 years of experience, he specializes in dog playgroups, dog walking, and dog training. Additionally, Donovan’s Dogs has a 5-star rating. Christina Shusterich Dog Behavior Expert Christina Shusterich is a Dog Behavior Expert, cited a Top Dog Trainer by the APDT and the owner of NY Clever K9 Inc. With over 20 years of experience, Christina has created her Total Harmony Dog Transformation® System to successfully treat behavior problems in dogs. She specializes in providing expert advice nationally and internationally on dog obedience, health, behavior problems, aggression, separation anxiety, and depression. She has received her certification as a Canine Behavior Counselor, Dog Trainer and Canine Behavior Specialist through the Animal Behavior Center of New York. She is a registered American Kennel Club (AKC) Canine Good Citizen Evaluator. Osama Maghawri Professional Dog Trainer Osama Maghawri is a Dog Trainer and Founder of OneStopK9, a dog training service in Miami, Florida. Osama utilizes balanced training methods to teach communication between owners and dogs. He specializes in basic obedience and behavioral issues such as resource guarding, fear-based aggression, and leash reactivity. Osama also helps owners understand the behaviors of their breed and how to continue training on their own in the future. Ty Villacreses Dog Behavior & Training Expert Ty Villacreses is a Dog Behavior & Training Expert, as well as the Owner of Bow Wow Behavioral, LLC in the Chicago area. With five years of experience, he specializes in positive reinforcement obedience training and deference training for puppies and adult dogs. Additionally, Bow Wow Behavioral LLC has a 5-star rating. Emily Fleisher, CTBC Professional Dog Trainer & Behavior Consultant Emily Fleisher is a Certified Dog Trainer and Behavior Consultant (CTBC) based in Paoli, Pennsylvania. She founded and operated The Mindful Paw, a dog training business that she ran for over 7 years. She is certified in canine CPR, first aid, and dog training from the Dog Training Internship Academy. She has a Certificate of Excellence through Dr. Susan Friedman's "Living and Learning with Animals" program. She completed an internship at the San Francisco SPCA (a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) and continued her education through the Fenzi Dog Sports Academy and Jean Donaldson's Academy for Dog Trainers. Emily also has a separate career as a Couples and Family Therapist. She has a BA in Public Health from the University of Florida. Amanda Marshall-Polimeni Dog Behavior Consultant Amanda Marshall-Polimeni is a Dog Behavior Consultant and the Owner/Founder of FurryTales in New Jersey. With a deep understanding of behavioral learning theories and a passion for the physical and psychological well-being of animals, Amanda specializes in using non-coercive, reinforcement-based approaches to generate desired behaviors. Amanda holds a BASc in Applied Psychology from NYU and is a Certified Professional Dog Trainer - Knowledge Assessed (CPDT-KA) and Certified Behavior Consultant Canine (CBCC-KA). She has also completed a Master’s Course in Aggressive Dog Training. Her initiative and dedication to quality, comprehensive animal care at FurryTales led to her recognition by Grow by Acorns + CNBC. Jennifer Van de Kieft Certified Advanced Feline Training & Behavior Professional Jennifer Van de Kieft is a Certified Advanced Feline Training & Behavior Professional, Fear Free Certified Animal Trainer, and the Owner of Cat Advocate LLC based in New York City. With four years of experience, she specializes in helping cat guardians address cat behavioral issues through positive reinforcement methods. Her specialties include inappropriate elimination, food insecurity and food aggression, and inter-cat aggression. In addition to Certifications in Feline Training and Behavior from the Animal Behavior Institute, Jennifer holds a BA from St. Francis College in Psychology and a JD from Cardozo School of Law. Computers & Technology Luigi Oppido Computer & Tech Specialist Luigi Oppido is the Owner and Operator of Pleasure Point Computers in Santa Cruz, California. Luigi has over 25 years of experience in general computer repair, data recovery, virus removal, and upgrades. He is also the host of the Computer Man Show! broadcasted on KSQD covering central California for over two years. Stan Kats Cybersecurity Expert Stan Kats is the COO and Chief Technologist for The STG IT Consulting Group in West Hollywood, California. Stan provides comprehensive technology & cybersecurity solutions to businesses through managed IT services, and for individuals through his consumer service business, Stan's Tech Garage. Stan has over 7 years of cybersecurity experience, holding senior positions in information security at General Motors, AIG, and Aramark over his career. Stan received a BA in International Relations from The University of Southern California. Gonzalo Martinez Computer & Phone Repair Specialist Gonzalo Martinez is the President of CleverTech, a tech repair business in San Jose, California founded in 2014. CleverTech LLC specializes in repairing Apple products. CleverTech pursues environmental responsibility by recycling aluminum, display assemblies, and the micro components on motherboards to reuse for future repairs. On average, they save 2 lbs - 3 lbs more electronic waste daily than the average computer repair store. Mitch Harris Consumer Technology Expert Mitch Harris is a Consumer Technology Expert based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Mitch runs his own IT Consulting company called Mitch the Geek, helping individuals and businesses with home office technology, data security, remote support, and cybersecurity compliance. Mitch earned a BS in Psychology, English, and Physics and graduated Cum Laude from Northern Arizona University. Anar Kazimov Digital Marketing Expert Anar Kazimov is a Digital Marketing Expert based in Vancouver, Canada. He is the Owner and Marketing Director of Pixel Prodigies, a company created to help business owners achieve more sales by revamping their digital portfolio. He has helped the NIH, IBM, Canadian film studios, Rolex dealerships, and many other firms in their marketing campaigns. He previously had a career in the IT industry and worked at Freelancer.com. He received a BS in Computer Science from the University of Victoria. Josef Storzi Apple & Mobile Phone Repair Specialist Josef Storzi is an Apple and Mobile Phone Repair Specialist and the Owner of Imobile LA, a mobile phone repair company based in Los Angeles, California. Josef specializes in repairing screens, charging ports, batteries, water damage, speakers, and microphones on all mobile phone brands including Apple, Samsung, LG, Nokia, and Sony. He also specializes in tablet, laptop, and computer repairs as well as the pros and cons of recent mobile software updates. Yaffet Meshesha Computer Specialist Yaffet Meshesha is a Computer Specialist and the Founder of Techy, a full-service computer pickup, repair, and delivery service. With over eight years of experience, Yaffet specializes in computer repairs and technical support. Techy has been featured on TechCrunch and Time. Spike Baron Network Engineer & Desktop Support Spike Baron is a Network Engineer & Desktop Support Expert based in Los Angeles, California. He is the owner of Spike’s Computer Repair. With over 25 years of working experience in the tech industry, Spike specializes in PC and Mac computer repair, used computer sales, virus removal, data recovery, and hardware and software upgrades. He has worked as an IT Systems expert for numerous companies, including Huntington Health, Blackbox, Honda, and Manufacturers Bank. In his spare time, Spike also builds and restores computers. He has his CompTIA A+ certification for computer service technicians and is a Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert. Tyrone Showers Technologist Tyrone Showers is a Technologist and the Co-owner of Taliferro Group, an IT consulting company based in Seattle, Washington. With over 35 years of professional experience, he specializes in API Design, e-Commerce, Operational Efficiency, and website development. He has a B.S. in Computer Science from DeVry Institute of Technology. Chiara Corsaro Phone & Computer Repair Technician Chiara Corsaro is the General Manager and Apple Certified Mac & iOS Technician for macVolks, Inc., an Apple Authorized Service Provider located in the San Francisco Bay Area. macVolks, Inc. was founded in 1990, is accredited by the Better Business Bureau (BBB) with an A+ rating, and is part of the Apple Consultants Network (ACN). Mobile Kangaroo Computer & Phone Repair Specialists Mobile Kangaroo is a full service repair shop and Apple Authorized Service Provider headquartered in Mountain View, CA. Mobile Kangaroo has been repairing electronic devices such as computers, phones, and tablets, for over 19 years, with locations in over 20 cities. Travis Page Brand & Product Specialist Travis Page is the Head of Product at Cinebody. Cinebody is a user-directed video content software company headquartered in Denver, Colorado that empowers brands to create instant, authentic, and engaging video content with anyone on earth. He holds a BS in Finance from the University of Colorado, Denver. Naseem Speach Tech Video Producer Naseem Speach is a Tech Video Producer based in Los Angeles, California. Naseem started his tech reviews YouTube channel in 2020 and has since gained a following of over 57,000 subscribers. He specializes in sharing information about the latest smart home tech, Apple, Samsung, Google, PlayStation, Microsoft, and gaming devices. Brandon Phipps Technology Specialist Brandon Phipps is a Technology Specialist based in Bakersfield, CA. He is the owner of Second Star Technologies and specializes in Managed IT Services for small and mid-sized businesses in Bakersfield, CA. With over 23 years of experience, he offers expert cloud computing, cybersecurity, and network management solutions. Brandon is a committed community member and coach who leads and innovates in tech and sports coaching. His dedication to local businesses and communities is evident in his hands-on, tailored approach to IT solutions. Axire Game Roblox Experts and Content Creators Axire Game is a popular YouTube channel streaming Roblox and Blox Fruit content, run by Leo and Sameer who are based in Nepal. Both Leo and Sameer began playing Roblox games during their childhood and developed a keen interest in Blox Fruits. They began making content around Blox Fruits on YouTube and TikTok, creating unique challenges, sharing helpful insights, and providing entertaining and educational content. They now boast over 90k subscribers across both platforms, reaching tens of millions of views. Bryzz Tortello Phone Repair Specialist Bryzz Tortello is a Phone Repair Specialist and the Owner & CEO of Tortello Repair Services. With over ten years of experience, she specializes in iPhone and iPad ranging from screen and battery replacements to microsoldering and data recovery. Bryzz attended The College of the Canyons. Naveh Ben Dror Social Media Security Expert Naveh Ben Dror is a Social Media Security Expert and the CEO of Spikerz based in Tel Aviv, Israel. Naveh and his team provide social media protection for content creators, businesses, and enterprises. His professional background is in international brand marketing and e-commerce. Naveh received both his Bachelor of Law and MBA from Reichman University. Michael Thompson-Brown Cybersecurity Expert Michael Thompson-Brown is a Cybersecurity Expert based in Portland, Maine. He is the owner and founder of PCRescue!, a company that provides cybersecurity and data management solutions to small businesses and individuals. Michael has over 25 years of experience in the IT industry and is a certified ethical hacker. He is passionate about helping clients protect their data and systems from malicious attacks and helping them optimize their online presence and reach. He received a Master’s degree in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance from Western Governors University, and a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Phoenix. Scott St Gelais IT Consultant Scott St Gelais is an IT Consultant and the Owner of Geeks in Phoenix, Arizona. With over two decades of experience, Scott specializes in computer service and repair, development, computer graphics, and website authoring. Scott received his Technical Associates Degree from High Tech Institute and completed the IT Support Professional Certificate by Google. Geeks in Phoenix is a member of the Microsoft Partner Network and an Intel Technology Provider Gold Partner. Henry Paris Electronic Repair Expert Henry Paris is an Electronic Repair Expert specializing in sharing information about smartphones. Henry is the owner and manager of Electronic Repair Solutions (ERS Bit), and has a follower base of over 63,000 YouTube subscribers and over 150,000 followers on Instagram. As Ersbit, Henry and his team create electronics repair content, offering repair tutorials, product reviews, and stress testing of devices. His most popular videos highlight phone camera and screen replacement tips. His channels offer recommendations and tips on how to save money by doing DIY repairs and other device upgrades. Henry’s aim is to educate his audience by covering all aspects of repairing phones, so that they can save money and fix their devices, themselves. Ken Colburn Consumer Electronics Expert Ken Colburn is a Consumer Electronics Expert and the Founder & CEO of Data Doctors Computer Services. With more than 34 years of experience, he specializes in computer checkups and repairs, data recovery, and teaching others about technology. Ken also provides one-minute tech tips through his broadcast, Data Doctors Tech Tips. Garnik Ovsepyan Computer Specialist Garnik Ovsepyan is a Computer Specialist and the Owner of HeliX PC based in Burbank, California. With over 25 years of experience, Garnik specializes in custom computer builds, computer repairs, virus removal, computer tune-ups, hardware and software troubleshooting and installations, diagnostics, and data backup and recovery. Pixlriffs Minecraft Expert Pixlriffs is a Minecraft expert and YouTube content creator based in Brighton, UK. With over 11 years of experience, Pixlriffs is a gameplay commentator who has specialized in Minecraft tutorials and Let's Play series since 2014. On his channel, he shares explanations of Minecraft mechanics, build tutorials, showcases of upcoming and in-development features, and more. He also co-hosts The Spawn Chunks, a weekly Minecraft news and discussion podcast. Jeremy Mercer Computer Repair Technician Jeremy Mercer is the Manager and Head Technician at MacPro-LA in Los Angeles, CA. He has over ten years of experience working in electronics repair, as well as retail stores that specialize in both Mac and PC. James Bell Phone Repair Specialist James Bell is a Phone Repair Specialist at Phone Techs in Winchester, California. With over seven years of experience, he specializes in cell phone, tablet, game console, and PC repairs. Phone Techs is an Akko Partner. Matt Ham Computer Repair Specialist Matt Ham is a Computer Repair Specialist and the CEO and President of Computer Repair Doctor. With over a decade of experience, Matt specializes in Mac, PC, iPhone, iPad, and Smartphone repairs and upgrades. Matt holds a BS in Mechanical Engineering from North Carolina State University and an MS in Mechanical Engineering from Columbia University. Matt has expanded Computer Repair Doctor to seven different locations. He is also a Co-Owner of Repair Life, a full-scale marketing agency specializing in driving both online and offline leads to cell phone and computer repair shops and device retailers. Kevin Burnett Software Developer Kevin Burnett is a Software Developer with over 20 years of professional experience. He works for SpiffWorkflow, a Python Process Automation tool for organizations. Prior to SpiffWorkflow, he spent the majority of his career at Rosetta Stone, a language-learning software company. He has experience with both front and back-end development and works primarily in Python, Ruby, and JavaScript. He attended the first RailsConf and the most recent PyCon US. He received an MBA and a BA in Computer Science and Spanish from Eastern Mennonite University. Shavo Hacopian Smartphone Repair Specialist Shavo Hacopian is a Smartphone Repair Specialist. With over 17 years of experience repairing and customizing smartphones, Shabin has a follower base of over 119,000 YouTube subscribers on his channel PBKreviews, and has over 29 million views. He specializes in teaching people how to take smartphones apart, repair or replace parts, and make informed decisions about what the right products are for them. Théo Dufort Software Engineer and Full-Stack Web Developer Théo Dufort is a Software Engineer and Full-Stack Web Developer based in Quebec, Canada. With nearly 6 years of experience, Théo is a full-stack developer specializing in web development. At just 16, he launched his own consulting business to advise on all things web design and development. Most recently he created MyBookQuest, designed to be an all-in-one platform for book lovers to track, organize, and fill their personal library. MyBookQuest aims to fill the gaps of the popular Goodreads app owned by Amazon by rewarding its users with points to give them different perks like discount coupons as an incentive to read, review, and rate their latest book. Blain Gunter Computer Repair Specialist Blain Gunter is a Computer Repair Specialist and small business owner based in Bakersfield, California. He was first introduced to computers at the age of five and has over twenty years of experience in his field. He is both an IT consultant and computer repair technician and takes pride in his ability to troubleshoot anything. He works with hardware, software, Windows, macOS, GNU/Linux, and even vintage electronics. Harish Chandran, PhD Machine Learning Engineer & PhD in Computer Science, Duke University Harish Chandran is the Engineering Site Lead and Senior Staff Research Engineer at DeepMind, where he leads the engineering efforts to integrate AI research results into Google products. Harish received his PhD in Computer Science from Duke University in 2012. While in graduate school, he worked as a Teaching Assistant, helping undergraduate students learn about algorithms and data structures. He has experience in DNA self-assembly, evolutionary algorithms, computational neuroscience, complexity theory, computer architecture, and super-computing. Linh Le Certified Mobile Repair Specialist Linh Le is a Certified Mobile Repair Specialist and the Owner of SC Mobile Repairs in San Clemente, California. With more than 12 years of experience, he specializes in smartphone, tablet, and smartwatch hardware repair. Linh has an iTech Mobile Device Repair Certification and an iOS Certification. He holds a Bachelor’s degree from The Franciscan University of Steubenville. Jessica Andzouana Software Engineer Jessica Andzouana is a Software Engineer based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over five years of professional experience in front-end development, digital art, and design, she is passionate about emerging technologies such as blockchain and AI. Her background as both a programmer and artist, paired with a highly design-conscious mindset, provides her a fresh perspective and unique skill set to produce creative solutions in her field. She works at Alcacruz as a Software Engineer, and received a dual BS/BA degree from Santa Clara in Computer Science and Studio Art. GraySun Builds Minecraft Expert GraySun Builds is a Minecraft expert and content creator based in Canada. He shares content on Instagram, Pinterest, YouTube, and TikTok focused on unique buildings, tutorials, and educational building videos, with a combined following of over 310k. He specializes in fantasy survival-esque building and utilizes a wide variety of colors in his builds. All of his builds are created with survival mode in mind, with the goal of being accessible and able to inspire anyone playing the game. His builds are also available to download on Patreon. Martin Aranovitch WordPress Trainer & Educator Martin Aranovitch is a WordPress Trainer and Educator and a WordPress Writer for WPMU DEV. With over 18 years of digital marketing and website maintenance experience, Martin specializes in providing comprehensive instruction for people looking to use WordPress effectively. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Science and Technology Studies from The University of New South Wales. Martin is also a digital publisher and the author of multiple WordPress guides and training manuals for people of all learning levels. Aydin Yildiz Electronics Repair Specialist Aydin Yildiz is an Electronics Repair Specialist based in San Diego, California. He is the founder of Fix4Less, a professional cellphone repair business that has been in business since 2014. Aydin has over a decade of experience in the electronics repair business, and he works with phone, tablet, and computer repairs. Fix4Less serves individuals, corporate customers, and wholesale buyers in both repairing and recycling Apple products. Aydin holds an MBA from Southern States University. Steven Racz A/V Expert Steven Racz is an Audio, Video, & Automation Expert and Owner at Altitude Audio Video based in Littleton, Colorado. With over 15 years of professional experience, Steven and his team of technicians specialize in installing residential and commercial audio systems, theater design and installation, Josh AI voice & control systems, and Control4 automation. They also provide Wi-Fi home networking services designed to eliminate dead zones and ensure optimal connectivity throughout the entire home. They are experts at installing secure, efficient home networks and integrating them with smart home automation systems. At Altitude Audio Video, Steven and his team strive to tailor the perfect system for their customer’s needs. Efficient IT Services IT Support Expert Efficient IT Services is an IT support service provider based in Anderson, South Carolina. They provide proactive, reliable residential IT services and local IT support for businesses in Anderson, Greenville, and Upstate South Carolina. Their services include providing managed IT services, cybersecurity solutions, network systems support, and computer support services. The team is highly experienced and stays current on the latest training and relevant industry standard certifications (DELL, CCNA & CCNA Security) to provide the highest quality of service to customers. Efficient IT Services takes pride in its work and provides IT services to help its community and drive the local economy forward. Dan Rubianes Tech Strategist Dan Rubianes is an IT Business Leader and the Founder and CEO of Cloudience based in Phoenix, AZ. Dan has over 25 years of experience in cybersecurity, cloud security, compliance and modernization. He is the author of the book Email Invasion and the creator of an online security course “Cybersecurity for Healthcare” on the security awareness website LearnComply.com. Cloudience provides Managed IT Services to businesses, with the promise of reducing downtime, increasing productivity, securing data, meeting regulatory compliance, and providing their clients with a competitive edge. Dan is trained as a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and holds certifications in Microsoft, Google, Sophos, Sonicwall, Fortinet, A+ and multiple Cybersecurity and Cloud domains. Sarah Evans Public Relations & Social Media Expert Sarah Evans is a Public Relations & Social Media Expert based in Las Vegas, Nevada. With over 14 years of industry experience, Sarah is the Founder & CEO of Sevans PR. Her team offers strategic communications services to help clients across industries including tech, finance, medical, real estate, law, and startups. The agency is renowned for its development of the "reputation+" methodology, a data-driven and AI-powered approach designed to elevate brand credibility, trust, awareness, and authority in a competitive marketplace. Sarah’s thought leadership has led to regular appearances on The Doctors TV show, CBS Las Vegas Now, and as an Adobe influencer. She is a respected contributor at Entrepreneur magazine, Hackernoon, Grit Daily, and KLAS Las Vegas. Sarah has been featured in PR Daily and PR Newswire and is a member of the Forbes Agency Council. She received her B.A. in Communications and Public Relations from Millikin University. Ken Koster, MS Master's Degree, Computer Science, Stanford University Ken Koster is the Co-founder and CTO of Ceevra, a medical technology company. He has over 15 years of experience programming and leading software teams at Silicon Valley companies. Ken holds a BS and MS in Computer Science from Stanford University. Gavin Anstey Video Producer, COO at Cinebody Gavin Anstey is the COO at Cinebody. Cinebody is User-Directed Content software that empowers brands to create instant, authentic, and engaging video content with anyone on earth. Gavin studied Journalism at the University of Colorado Boulder, before launching a career in video production and software. Darlene Antonelli, MA wikiHow Technology Writer Darlene has been writing and editing tech content at wikiHow since 2019. She previously worked for AppleCare, served as a writing tutor, volunteered in IT at an animal rescue, and taught as an adjunct professor for EN101 and EN102. Darlene has completed Coursera courses on technology, writing, and language. She holds both a BA (2011) and an MA (2012) from Rowan University in Writing, with a focus on workplace communication. With her extensive experience, academic background, and ongoing learning, Darlene has become the go-to grammar expert for her friends and family, as well as a skilled wordsmith for anyone in need. Simone Masiero Copywriter and Digital Marketing Expert Simone Masiero is a copywriter and digital marketing expert based in Greater Padua, Italy. With over 5 years of experience, Simone specializes in crafting captivating copy, digital marketing, and social media management. He shares copywriting advice and tips to grow a brand on his social media, @simonknowscopy. Simone is currently the marketing manager for a 3D modeling company in Italy. He has a master’s degree in marketing, corporate communication, and economics from the University of Verona, and a bachelor’s degree in economics and management from the University of Ferrara. Cinebody Video Production Gurus Cinebody is a Denver-based computer software that helps companies create professional video content using the combined power of user smartphones. Their user-directed content software empowers brands to create instant, authentic, and engaging video content with anyone on earth. Neverthink Video Curation App Neverthink is an award-winning video app and website that gives you a TV-like experience of the best and latest YouTube videos. Instead of algorithms recommending videos to you, their channels are powered by human curation, allowing you to discover videos and creators you would never find otherwise. Travis Boylls wikiHow Technology Writer Travis has been a tech writer at wikiHow for more than 10 years. He has also worked in technical support for Dish Network and AT&T Wireless. He studied graphic design and web design at Pikes Peak Community College. He specializes in Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, iOS, and video game consoles. Travis has had a fascination with computers and technology that goes all the way back to childhood. He is proficient in all manner of software and computer operating systems. Nicole Levine, MFA wikiHow Technology Writer Nicole Levine is a Technology Writer and Editor for wikiHow. She has more than 20 years of experience creating technical documentation and leading support teams at major web hosting and software companies. Nicole also holds an MFA in Creative Writing from Portland State University and teaches composition, fiction-writing, and zine-making at various institutions. Sam Browning wikiHow Technology Writer Sam Browning is an Emerging Technology Writer for wikiHow. Sam has not only written countless step-by-step articles for social media and tech, but he also has experience writing instructional articles on technology for Davidson College and reviewing video games. He is currently pursuing a degree in English with a minor in Digital Studies at Davidson. Mark Webster Professor of Web Design Mark Webster is a Professor of Web Design at Clover Park Technical College in Washington. He has taught at CPTC since 2002, in both the Media Design Department and the Computer Programming and Web Development Department. Emily Schmitt wikiHow Technology Writer Emily Schmitt is a Technology Writer for wikiHow. Emily is a tech and social media enthusiast who has written dozens of articles on popular apps and services. Emily has experience as an editor of the Davidsonian, the on-campus newspaper at Davidson College. She is currently enrolled at Davidson College, earning her BA in both English and Digital Studies. Cory Stillman wikiHow Technology Writer Cory Stillman is a Technology Writer for wikiHow. Cory has experience writing about Film and TV for several online publications, including Screen Rant and Film Cred. He earned a degree in Film and Media Studies with a minor in Creative Writing and certificates in Global Studies and Children’s Literature from the University of Pittsburgh. Ellie Salyers wikiHow Technology Writer Ellie Salyers is a Technology Writer for wikiHow. Ellie has experience working for a data science startup, as well as writing analytically and creatively for college courses. She has written a number of how-to articles in the technology and social media spaces. She is currently earning her Bachelor's Degree from NYU in Social & Cultural Analysis alongside a double minor in Creative Writing and Studio Art. Nada Shoreibah wikiHow Technology Writer Nada Shoreibah is a Technology Writing Intern for wikiHow. Beyond writing articles on up and coming technology and social media, Nada has experience writing local and campus news for two publications at Davidson College, The Davidsonian and Complexion Newsletter, and now holds editor positions in both. She is a third-year history major with a concentration in Middle East studies. Maddie Holleman wikiHow Technology Writer Maddie Holleman is a Technology Writing Intern for wikiHow. Alongside writing many articles on technology and social media, Maddie has previously worked as a social media strategist and publicist for two organizations and has been using social media for years. She is currently pursuing a degree in Anthropology and Digital Studies at Davidson College. Katherine Pryszlak wikiHow Technology Writer Katherine Pryszlak has worked in the tech industry for decades, focusing on UI/UX, accessibility, and building systems that prioritize users from the ground up. With an academic background in English, she understands the importance of bringing technology to as wide an audience as possible with clear, concise communication, and loves working with the wikiHow community to achieve that goal. Nathan Zbeetnoff Steam Gaming Content Creator Nathan Zbeetnoff is a Steam Gaming Content Creator. Kate Emerald Online Gaming Content Creator and The Sims Specialist Kate Emerald is a Online Gaming Content Creator and The Sims Specialist. Sports & Personal Training Michele Dolan Certified Fitness Trainer Michele Dolan is a Fitness Trainer based in Sidney, British Columbia. She has been a personal trainer and fitness instructor since 2002, and was certified as a Personal Trainer by the British Columbia Recreation and Parks Association (BCRPA). Michele is also a Registered Clinical Counselor, and uses her 20+ years of fitness coaching experience to help clients understand their mind-body connection. She is a Registered Clinical Counsellor (RCC) and Certified Clinical Counsellor (CCC), certified by the British Columbia Association of Clinical Counsellors and the Canadian Counselling and Psychotherapy Association. In her work, Michele uses the tools of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Dialectic Behavior Therapy and Cognitive Processing Therapy for Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome. She practices and teaches mindfulness and acceptance in all of her coaching work. She holds a Master’s Degree in Counselling Psychology. Monica Morris ACE Certified Personal Trainer Monica Morris is an ACE (American Council on Exercise) Certified Personal Trainer based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 15 years of fitness training experience, Monica started her own physical training practice and gained her ACE Certification in 2017. Her workouts emphasize proper warm-ups, cool-downs, and stretching techniques. Francisco Gomez Fitness Coach Francisco Gomez is the Head Coach at the FIT Potato Gym, a training gym established in 2001 in the San Francisco Bay Area. Francisco is a former competitive runner who helps endurance athletes train for major marathons like the Boston Marathon. Francisco specializes in Injury Rehab, Flexibility, Marathon Training, and Senior Fitness. He has a B.S. in Nutrition and Exercise Physiology & Running. Julian Arana, M.S.eD., NCSF-CPT Certified Personal Trainer Julian Arana is a Personal Trainer and the Founder of B-Fit Training Studios, a personal training and wellness set of studios based in Miami, Florida. Julian has over 12 years of personal training and coaching experience. He is a certified personal trainer (CPT) by the National Council on Strength and Fitness (NCSF). He has a BS in Exercise Physiology from Florida International University and an MS in Exercise Physiology specializing in strength and conditioning from the University of Miami. Laila Ajani Fitness Trainer Laila Ajani is a Fitness Trainer and founder of Push Personal Fitness, a personal training organization based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 13 years as a trainer and exercise specialist, Laila has expertise in competitive athletics (gymnastics, powerlifting, and tennis), personal training, distance running, and Olympic lifting. Laila is certified by the National Strength & Conditioning Association (NSCA), and USA Powerlifting (USAPL), and she is a Corrective Exercise Specialist (CES). Pete Cerqua Certified Personal Trainer & Nutritionist Pete Cerqua is a Certified Personal Trainer and Nutritionist. Pete is also a five-time best-selling author of books including "The 90-Second Fitness Solution" and "High Intensity Fitness Revolution for Women/Men" published by Simon and Schuster and Skyhorse Publishing. Pete has over 20 years of personal training and nutrition coaching experience and operates the 90-Second Fitness flagship studio in New York City. Danny Gordon Certified Personal Trainer Danny Gordon is an American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) Certified Personal Trainer and Owner of The Body Studio for Fitness, a fitness studio based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 20 years of physical training and teaching experience, he has focused his studio on semi-private personal training. Danny received his Personal Trainer Certification from the California State University, East Bay and the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM). Michael Reynolds Professional Fishing Instructor Michael Reynolds is a Professional Fishing Instructor and the Owner of Long Beach, California Fishing Lessons by Michael Reynolds. In his over 40 years of fishing experience, Michael has become very knowledgeable about the variety of fishing methods and techniques. He is passionate about sharing his knowledge with beginners to experienced anglers. Michael has been guiding and teaching fishing for over five years and is licensed and bonded with the Department of Fish and Wildlife (DFW). Ryan Tremblay Basketball Coach Ryan Tremblay is a Basketball Coach and the Owner of National Sports ID and STACK Basketball. With over 30 years of experience, Ryan specializes in basketball coaching, social media marketing, and website design. Ryan created the National Sports ID as a platform to verify the age/grade of youth athletes and STACK Basketball to inspire young athletes to grow into mature individuals and basketball players. Ryan was a First Team All-Decade basketball player in Bergen County and finished in the top 20 all-time leading scorers in the county’s history with 1,730 points. He went on to Caldwell University on a basketball scholarship where he was part of three championship teams. Ryan was a two-time All-Metropolitan, All-State, and All-Conference point guard and the all-time three-point leader in the school’s history, landing him in the Caldwell University Athletic Hall of Fame. Kai Ng Certified Running Coach Kai Ng is a USATF and RRCA Certified Running Coach at Run Coach Kai. Kai has competed in over 55 races and over 15 marathons, and has trained with 16x USA and World record holder Patti Catalano Dillonso. He specializes in coaching runners of all levels and showing people that everyone can be a runner. Kai is committed to helping his clients reach their goals by showing them how to run with proper form and holding them accountable to train consistently. Dean Theriot Personal Trainer Dean Theriot is a Personal Trainer and the Owner of Timberline Fitness in Houston, Texas. With over 25 years of experience in the fitness industry, Dean specializes in personal, group, and sport-specific training. Dean holds a BS in Exercise Physiology from LSU. Dean combines resistance and cardiovascular training with pilates exercises for comprehensive workouts for his clients. His sport-specific training includes football, basketball, and baseball. Laura Flinn NASM Certified Personal Trainer Laura Flinn is a National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) Certified Personal Trainer, USA Olympic Weightlifting Sports Performance Coach and Certified Fitness Nutritionist, with an additional qualification as a TRX Suspension Trainer. Laura runs her own personal training program based in the San Francisco Bay Area and specializes in topics such as weight loss, muscle growth, cardiovascular training, and strength training. Kate Jutagir Equestrian Specialist & Trainer Kate Jutagir is an Equestrian Specialist, Hunter/Jumper Trainer, and the Owner of Blackhound Equestrian, a premier training barn located on 65 acres in Castro Valley, California. Originally designed to be a riding school used as a springboard for dedicated students into careers in the sport, Blackhound Equestrian has grown into a hunter/jumper training program for all levels focusing on providing a solid foundation needed for personal advancement in the sport. Kate has over 25 years of equestrian instruction and training experience. Her focus on developing horse and rider partnerships provides a complete equestrian education for both beginners and advanced riders alike. Isaac Hess Baseball Coach & Instructor Isaac Hess is a Baseball Coach, Instructor, and the Founder of MADE Baseball Development and Champion Mindset Training Program, a baseball training program based in Los Angeles, California. Isaac has over 14 years of experience coaching baseball and specializes in private lessons and tournaments. He has played baseball for both professional and collegiate leagues including Washington State University and the University of Arizona. Isaac was ranked as one of Baseball America's top 10 prospects for 2007 and 2008. He earned a BS in Regional Development from the University of Arizona in 2007. Caitlin Downey Yoga Instructor Caitlin Downey is a Registered Yoga Teacher at Yoga Therapy in Burlington, Vermont. She has over 200 hours of experience as a certified Yoga Instructor since 2014, and has over 600 hours of training as a certified Phoenix Rising Yoga Therapist. Jon Depoian Skateboarding Instructor Jon Depoian is a Skateboarding Instructor and the Owner of Intro2Skateboarding, an organization based in Orange County, California that provides professional private, home-school, after-school, birthday party, and summer camp skateboard lessons for beginners and experienced skateboarders alike. Jon has over 21 years of skateboarding experience and over 10 years of skateboard instruction experience. He also has extensive experience producing street skateboarding videos and skating competitions. Michael Metz Golf Instructor Michael Metz is a Golf Instructor and the Director of Instruction at Simi Hills Golf Course. With more than 15 years of experience, Michael is adept at coaching all facets of Golf. Mike uses technology, such as Flightscope, V1 Swing Suite, Blast Motion, and BodiTrak pressure mapping, to provide advanced golf training with quick results. Kathy Sparrow, MA Fishing Instructor Kathy Sparrow is a fly-fishing instructor and adventurer at heart. Kathy is the co-founder and previous manager of the Kingfisher Inn, a fly-fishing lodge on the Lower Laguna Madre in Texas. She is the author of "On the Mother Lagoon: Flyfishing and the Spiritual Journey" and "The Whispered Teachings of Grandmother Trout” a novel conveying the feminine perspective of fly fishing. Kathy is also a Certified Canfield Trainer in Canfield Methodologies. She guides individuals through the process of embracing change by expressing confidence, awareness, and courage through the tools of writing, fly fishing, and intentional conversation. She has a MA in English with an emphasis in Literature and Cultural Studies from the University of Texas-Pan American. Peter Fryer Tennis Instructor Peter Fryer is a Tennis Instructor based in Derry, Northern Ireland. He works as both a tennis writer and a coach. He completed his professional tennis teaching qualification shortly after finishing university and has been teaching the sport for over 13 years. Peter began the Love Tennis Blog in 2010, and is a contributing writer for the BBC and a variety of other national media outlets. Brendon Rearick Personal Trainer & Strength Coach Brendon Rearick is a Personal Trainer, Strength Coach, Fitness Program Director, and co-founder of Certified Functional Strength Coach (CSFC), a fitness education company in the San Francisco Bay Area. With 17 years of experience in the fitness industry, Brendon specializes in strength and conditioning, and his company CSFC has certified over 3,000 trainers in over 20 countries. Brendon has worked as a Program Director for Mike Boyle Strength and Conditioning (MBSC) and earned his massage therapy license from the Cortiva Institute-Boston. Brendon holds a BS in Kinesiology from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Geraldine Grace Johns Professional Ballerina & Ballet Instructor Geraldine Grace Johns is a Professional Ballerina and the Owner of Grace Ballet in New York and Los Angeles. Geraldine toured through New Zealand, Australia, Japan, and Korea as Jammes in Ken Hill's Original Phantom of the Opera. She has studied with the Royal Academy of Dance in London to become a teacher and taught for the Kudo School of Ballet in Yokohama. Geraldine also ran her own Royal Academy of Dance School in New Zealand before studying at the Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre in New York City. Geraldine was a guest coach and Master Class teacher in Toronto for the Canadian Royal Academy of Dance's Dance Challenge in 2018, 2019, and 2020. She was also a guest coach and Master Class teacher for the USA Royal Academy of Dance Challenge in Long Beach, California in 2019 and 2020. Grace Ballet Los Angeles has won recognition as one of 13 Best Ballet Schools in Los Angeles since opening her school. Geraldine is a contract Practical Teaching Supervisor for the Certificate in Ballet Teaching Studies for the Royal Academy of Dance. Walter Merino Soccer Coach Walter Merino is a Youth Soccer Coach and Co-Founder of Ole Soccer Club based out of the Los Angeles, California area. He has coached youth from the age of four to the high school and college levels. Walter has played collegiate soccer for Cal Poly Pomona and Los Angeles Mission College. His accomplishments include coaching Olé Soccer Club to win the 2017 Cal South State Cup Governors Boys 2007 Division title. Kent Bry Certified Ski & Snowboarding Instructor Kent Bry is a certified ski and snowboarding instructor and the director of Adventure Ski & Snowboard, a school based in the San Diego, California metro area. With over 50 years of skiing and snowboarding performance and instruction experience, Kent is certified by the Professional Ski Instructors of America (PSIA). Adventure Ski & Snowboard is a member of the PSIA and the American Association of Snowboard Instructors (AASI). Kent holds a BS in Recreational Therapy from San Diego State University and is also a California-registered recreational therapist. Shira Tsvi Personal Trainer & Fitness Instructor Shira Tsvi is a Personal Trainer and Fitness Instructor with over 7 years of personal training experience and over 2 years leading a group training department. Shira is certified by the National College of Exercise Professionals and the Orde Wingate Institute for Physical Education and Sports in Israel. Her practice is based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Brad Hurvitz Certified Survival Swimming Instructor Brad Hurvitz is a Certified Swimming Instructor for My Baby Swims, an adolescent swimming school based in La Jolla, California. Brad is trained as an Infant Swimming Resource (ISR) instructor with ISR's Self-Rescue® program. He specializes in training children aged six months to six years of age survival skills like floating on their back to breathe and swimming back to the wall, while also educating parents on how to better keep their kids safe. He has a Master of Business Administration from Oregon State University. Scott Fitterman Outdoor Skills Expert Scott Fitterman is an Outdoor Skills Expert and the Co-Founder of TrailBound Project, a hiking and backpacking school headquartered in Ringwood, New Jersey. TrailBound Project offers hiking and backpacking courses, trips, and outdoor adventure challenges for all skill levels. Scott is also a Search and Rescue Officer, Instructor, Mountain Rescue Unit member, and certified as a Wilderness First Responder EMT. Leveraging his extensive expertise, Scott leads treks in the backcountry across the Northeastern US. He holds a business degree from the University of Maryland. Alana Silverman Certified EAGALA Equine Specialist Alana Silverman is a Certified EAGALA (Equine Assisted Growth and Learning Association) Equine Specialist and the Assistant Manager of Paddock Riding Club, a 200-horse premier equestrian facility based in Los Angeles, California. Alana has over 25 years of experience caring for and riding horses and specializes in English riding and riding instruction. She has a BA in Psychology from the University of Arizona. Souad Gharib Exercise & Wellness Specialist Souad Gharib is a Exercise & Wellness Specialist based in the United Kingdom. She is the Founder of Female Trainer, a boutique women's gym based in West London, United Kingdom. Souad specializes in helping women reach their goals through exercise, nutrition, and counseling. Female Trainer offers personalized training sessions delivered by Souad and her experienced team of female trainers. In addition to in-person training, she has also created an online coaching program, offering tailored fitness programs and guidance to women worldwide. Her unique contributions to women's health and fitness have been featured in several online publications, including Savoir Flair, The Independent, and Yahoo UK. Jeremiah Thomas Pickleball Expert Jeremiah Thomas is a Pickleball Expert and the Founder of Doylestown Pickleball based in Doylestown, Pennsylvania. With over 50 acres of facilities, Jeremiah and his team offer a wide variety of programming for kids looking to create, be active, and play on their dozens of courts and fields. Jeremiah is a certified PPR (Professional Pickleball Registry) instructor as well as a former college tennis player and instructor. He received his Bachelor of Education in Elementary and Early Childhood Education from Gwynedd Mercy University as well as a Master's in Educational Leadership and Administration from Delaware Valley University. Alyssa Chang Wellness Coach & Personal Trainer Alyssa Chang is a nutrition coach and trainer, based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She uses her extensive background in brain-based neuroscience to work with clients on improving their connections with their brain and body to heal, reach goals, and move pain-free. She holds a BS in Kinesiology and Exercise, Nutrition and Wellness from the California State University, East Bay and is certified in Precision Nutrition, Z-health Performance and is certified by the National Council for Strength and Fitness. Tanya Berenson Gymnastics Instructor Tanya Berenson is a Gymnastics Instructor and the General Manager of the Los Angeles School of Gymnastics. With over 25 years of professional gymnastics experience, Tanya has also served as a consultant to USA Gymnastics, has served as the USA World Maccabi Games Head Coach, USA Gymnastics Meet Director, and RAS counselor. She holds a B.Ed. in Early Childhood Development from the University of California, Los Angeles. Derrek Hofrichter Self-Defense Specialist Derrek Hofrichter is a Self-Defense Specialist and the Founder of EVKM Self Defense & Fitness in Tempe, Arizona. Derrek specializes in Krav Maga, Personal Safety, and Boxing. Derrek is a Krav Maga Third Degree Black Belt, a Senior Certified Krav Maga Instructor, and a Krav Maga Alliance Executive Board, and Training Team Member. EVKM Self Defense & Fitness was named the 2014 Krav Maga Alliance School of the Year and the 2017 Best Gym/Workout Studio in Phoenix. Derrek was named as one of the top 30 Health and Fitness Leaders in Arizona under the age of 40 by The Arizona Republic and azcentral.com in 2018. He also holds a BA in Government Public Policy from Patrick Henry College. Frank Blaney Certified Tai Chi & Qigong Instructor Frank Blaney is a Certified Qigong and Tai Chi Instructor with over 15 years of teaching experience. Passionate about making Qigong more accessible to people, Frank is the author of "Qigong: The Quick & Easy Start-Up Guide." He also holds a 2nd Degree Black Belt in Jujitsu and trains executives and staff of corporations, NGOs, and communities in self-care, personal performance and conflict resolution. He holds an MA in Negotiation, Conflict Resolution, and Peacebuilding from California State University Dominguez Hills. Adrian Tandez Self Defense Trainer Adrian Tandez is a Martial Arts and Self-Defense Specialist based in Mountain View, California. He is the founder, owner, and head instructor of the Warrior Combat Arts Academy, a world-renowned self-defense training center. He started the academy in 2005. Adrian has earned the titles of Guro (teacher in Filipino) and SiFu (master in Cantonese) from his certifications and years of martial arts training. Trained under the renowned martial artist Dan Inosanto, Adrian is a certified instructor in Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do, Filipino Martial Arts, and Silat, among other things. He has had over 30 years of martial arts experience. Bernat Franquesa Licensed Soccer Coach & Head of Methodology at APFC Bernat Franquesa is the Co-Founder and Head of Methodology at APFC (Albert Puig Football Concepts), a youth development program for players and coaches with headquarters in San Diego, California. APFC provides soccer training for youth and educational content and consulting services for coaches, academies, and clubs. At APFC, Bernat is responsible for co-developing and applying technical guidelines for player development programs. He has been coaching soccer in Catalunya and the US since he was 15 years old. Landis Owens Personal Trainer Landis Owens is a Personal Trainer and the Owner of Almighty Personal Training Studio in Tempe, Arizona. With over 15 years of experience in the health and fitness industry, Landis specializes in weight loss, nutrition, and core and strength training. Landis received a football scholarship to Mesa Community College where he studied Engineering and Sports and Exercise. He is an ISSA Certified Personal Trainer and also holds certifications in Nutrition, Youth Sports, Injury Stay Free, and CPR. Landis also competes in bodybuilding competitions. Scott Anderson, MA, ATC, SFMA, DNSP Sports Medicine & Injury Prevention Specialist Scott Anderson is the Chief Clinical Officer at SyncThink, an award winning startup founded out of Stanford University. Scott previously served as the Director of Sports Medicine/Athletic Training for Stanford University for over ten years from 2007 to 2017. Scott has over 18 years of clinical and management experience, and is a recognized international speaker on topics of clinical specialization, which include developmental kinesiology, neuroscience/concussion, and movement dysfunction. He is a certified Dynamic Neuromuscular Stabilization Practitioner (DNSP), Sports Safety Specialist and is certified to conduct Selective Functional Movement Assessments (SFMA), and Functional Movement Screenings (FMS). He earned a BS in Athletic Training from Washington State University in 2000 and an MA in Athletic Administration from Saint Mary's College in 2002. David Engel Muay Thai Instructor & Self Defense Trainer David Engel is a Muay Thai Instructor and Self Defense Trainer based in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 15 years of martial arts instruction and training experience, David runs California Martial Athletics with co-owner Joe Chernay. He has created and maintained martial arts programs at Rise Combat Sports in San Francisco and Round 5 Martial Arts Academy in San Leandro, with a mission to provide students with a level of comfort and competency that manifests both within and outside the martial arts context. He is also a registered cornerman for amateur and pro competitors under the IKF (International Kickboxing Federation). David was the youngest apprentice instructor of the Thai Boxing Association of America under Ajarn Chai Sirisute (2009), and was a top-ranked amateur competitor in his weight class (127-130 lb) in California between 2013 and 2015. Adam Shuty Certified Strength & Conditioning Specialist Adam Shuty is a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist and owner of ATOMIC Total Fitness, a fitness training studio in New York, New York. With over 15 years of experience, Adam specializes in weightlifting, strength and conditioning, and martial arts. Adam holds a BS in Industrial Engineering from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. In 2014, Adam appeared on the Live With Kelly and Michael Show as one of the top five fitness instructors in the country. John Graden Martial Arts Expert John Graden is a Martial Arts Expert and the founder of the Martial Arts Teachers’ Association (MATA) based in Tampa Bay, Florida. An 8th-degree black belt, John offers a variety of courses, including Student Safety, Real Estate Agent Safety, Anti-Abduction, and Customized Self Defense. He also provides training in Verbal Defense, Public Speaking, and Leadership. Dubbed the "Teacher of Teachers" by Martial Arts World magazine, John has been featured in the Wall Street Journal, on the A&E Network, and the Dr. Oz Show. Tiffany Stafford, CPT Life Coach, Personal Trainer, & Holistic Nutritionist Tiffany Stafford is a Certified Personal Trainer, Holistic Nutritionist, and the Owner of LifeBODY Fitness, a personal training and small group training studio based in Hillsboro, Oregon. She has over two decades of personal training and coaching experience. She specializes in wellness training, life coaching, and holistic nutrition teaching. She earned her personal training certification from the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM). Ashley Mak, DPT Physical Therapist Ashley Mak is a Physical Therapist and the Owner of Ashley Mak Performance and Rehabilitation, his physical therapy business based in Hoboken, New Jersey. He is also the CEO of Hudson River Fitness and an Adjunct Professor at Kean University. With over seven years of physical therapy experience, Ashley specializes in both pain management and maximizing physical performance. He received his BA in Biology from Villanova University in 2010 and his Doctorate in Physical Therapy (DPT) from Thomas Jefferson University in 2012. Jason Myerson, DPT, DMT, OCS, FAAOMPT Physical Therapist & Certified Orthopedic Specialist Jason Myerson is a Physical Therapist and a Certified Orthopedic Specialist. He is affiliated with Performance Physical Therapy & Wellness with clinics located in Connecticut. He serves as adjunct faculty in the Physical Therapy Department at Quinnipiac University. Jason specializes in helping active people get back to hobbies, activities, and sports they love while utilizing an integrated approach to wellness. He holds an MA in Physical Therapy from Quinnipiac University and a Doctorate in Physical Therapy (DPT) from Arcadia University. He is Residency and Fellowship trained in Orthopedic Manual Therapy, achieved a Doctorate in Manual Therapy (DMT) and became a Fellow of the American Academy of Orthopedic Manual Physical Therapists (FAAOMPT). Travis Lund Sailing Instructor & Executive Director, Treasure Island Sailing Center Travis Lund is the General Manager at the Vallejo Marina, a large marina located between the San Francisco Bay and the Delta in California. Sailing since he was six-years-old, Travis has over 15 years working in sailing operations and instruction and has pioneered a coaching platform that combined traditional coaching with multi-camera video support. He studied English at Michigan State University, where he was on the sailing team. Wendy Powell Maternal Health & Exercise Specialist Wendy Powell is a Maternal Health and Exercise Specialist and the Founder and CEO of MUTU System, the world's best-selling, medically recommended online fitness education program for mothers. Wendy specializes in pregnancy, post-baby recovery, postpartum exercises, fitness education, and body confidence. Wendy works to shift the conversation on women's bodies towards equality and empowerment for health, confidence, and power. She is a published author, international speaker, and award-winning entrepreneur. Wendy is on the Women's Development Board of the MicroLoan Foundation and is a frequent contributor to the BBC. MUTU System has been featured in Vogue, the Huffington Post, Fox News Health, Daily Mail, and The Guardian, and is recommended by Hollywood Trainer, Jeanette Jenkins. Yvonne Mo Fitness and Health Coach & Kung Fu Instructor Yvonne Mo is a Fitness and Health Coach and Kung Fu Instructor. With more than 21 years of fitness industry and martial arts experience, she specializes in combining and teaching eastern and western fitness and health modalities, which include Tai Chi, sports acupuncture, Chinese medicine, and fire cupping. Yvonne received her Personal Trainer Certifications through both the National Strength and Conditioning Association and the American College of Sports Medicine. Jesse Pichardo Personal Trainer Jesse Pichardo is a Personal Trainer and Nutrition expert based in Fresno, California. He is a Certified Personal Trainer with the National Academy of Sports Medicine. He is also a Certified Nutrition Coach through Precision Nutrition’s Level 2 Master Health Coaching Certification. He is also a Personal Trainer on staff at Fresno Athletic Training Center, a stat-of-the-art training center for personal training, bootcamps, sports-specific coaching, and athletic event training. Jesse helps clients with motivation and accountability, providing a structured and personalized fitness program for each person. No matter where a customer is in their fitness journey, Jesse prioritizes moving them up to the next level and helping them achieve their goals. Errol Ismail Certified Personal Trainer Errol Ismail is a Personal Trainer and the CEO and Co-Founder of Maestro Training. With nearly 10 years of experience, Errol specializes in helping individuals incorporate exercise into their daily lives by making it convenient and creating a community of support and encouragement. Before starting his own company, he honed his craft at at Equinox, one of the most prestigious gyms in the USA. Bianca Peart Sports Journalist and Education Professional Bianca Peart is a sports journalist and education professional passionate about empowering students and energizing sports fans. She works as a reporter, emcee, and stage manager at major sporting events for the NBA, WNBA, NCAA, MLS, the Pickleball Professional Association (PPA) Tour, and more. She also holds a full time position as a global product manager at the College Board, leading efforts to expand access to Advanced Placement (AP) courses for high school students in underrepresented communities. Recently, Bianca has served as the in-arena host for the Long Island Nets, New York Liberty, New York City Football Club, March Madness, Big Ten Football, Jordan Brand, Nike World Basketball Festival, NY Giants, Philadelphia Eagles and Aces Elite Classic. She’s hosted the TV Segment Checking in with the Knicks for MSG Networks. Her commentary has been featured on ESPN, TheGrio, New York Sports, Fumble Sports, and the NFL Network. Bianca holds a Bachelor’s degree in Management Information Systems from Penn State, a Master’s degree in Journalism from Columbia University, and additional certifications in product management from Northwestern University and business communication from Harvard. Zendon Verster Cricket Coach, CoachCricXI Zendon Verster is a cricket coach based in South Africa. With over 14 years of experience coaching cricket, Zendon is the co-founder of the largest online cricket coaching platform, CoachCricXI. He has been a Cricket South Africa-qualified coach since 2012, alongside his co-founder, Byron Fraser. Zendon has experience coaching players and squads ranging in skill level from beginner to international level. He was also contracted to play professional cricket for several years. Matthew Thibodeaux Professional Beach Volleyball Player Matthew Thibodeaux is a Professional Beach Volleyball Player and Founder of Venice Beach Volleyball Academy in Venice, California. Matthew has over six years of professional coaching experience. He is passionate about helping others learn how to play beach volleyball and empowering people to feel confident on the court. Jim Price Baseball Coach Jim Price is a Baseball Coach and the Founder of Bash Sports Academy based in Chicago, IL. Jim has over 20 years of baseball coaching experience and specializes in hitting, defense, and mental game management. Prior to founding Bash Sports Academy, Jim served on the Board of Directors of Welles Park Youth Baseball, the largest youth baseball organization in the city of Chicago. Hayley Church Aquatic Manager Hayley Church is an owner at Cooksey's Lifeguard & Swim Academy, LLC in Southern California. Hayley has been a lifeguard and swim instructor since 2007 and has dedicated her time to teaching people of all ages how to swim. Hayley and her team offer lifeguards and programming such as swim camp counselors, swim lessons, and water aerobics classes to clients of all sizes from large organizations to private homes. She received her Master’s degree in Recreation Management. Susana Jones, C-IAYT Certified Yoga Therapist & Educator Based in San Diego, Susana Jones is a Yoga Therapist and Educator with 12 years of experience serving groups, individuals and organizations. She is certified with the International Association of Yoga Therapists, registered as an E-RYT 500 with Yoga Alliance and holds a Bachelor’s degree from the University of Colorado. Susana offers therapeutic yoga to private clients through Shakti Urbana and  mentors students of the internationally accredited Soul of Yoga. Susana dedicates her work to peaceful living on a healthy planet. Nitzan Levy Sailing Instructor Captain Nitzan Levy is a Sailor, Social Entrepreneur, and the Founder of Sailors NYC, a recreational sailors’ club based in Jersey City, New Jersey that specializes in cruising boats and a variety of community programs. Capt. Levy has over 20 years of sailing experience and has sailed in many places around the world including: the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea, The Caribbean, and the Indian Ocean. Capt. Levy is a U.S. Coast Guard Licensed Master of vessels up to 50 Tons with Auxiliary Sail and Assistance Towing Endorsements. Capt. Levy is also a NauticEd Level V Captain Rank Chief Instructor, an American National Standards Assessor, an SLC instructor, an ASA (American Sailing Association) Certified Instructor Bareboat Chartering, and an Israeli licensed skipper on Boats for International Voyages. Nevrize Aydogan Professional Personal Trainer Nevrize Aydogan is a Professional Personal Trainer at Seattle Personal Fitness. With over 15 years of personal training experience, she specializes in nutrition, custom fitness plans, and increasing stamina and muscle tone. She has a Bachelor's degree in Physical Education from Ege University. Dedicated to building custom fitness plans to fit individual client needs, Nevrize is experienced and well versed in sports-based exercise and has also appeared on TV for fitness and exercise programming. Christopher Carreiro Certified Personal Trainer Christopher Carreiro is a Certified Personal Trainer and the Founder of Aum Training Center in Boston, Massachusetts. With over 10 years of experience, Chris specializes in helping busy people look and feel years younger. He does so by integrating holistic nutrition and mindfulness into life-changing transformation programs. In addition to being a Precision Nutrition Level 1 Certified Coach, Chris is a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS). He also has a Master’s degree in Psychology with a specialization in life coaching. Haley Snyder Softball Player Haley Snyder is a former Division I Student-Athlete and Softball Player. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in softball mechanics, fundamentals, and pitching. Haley holds a BA and MA from Stanford University, where she competed in the PAC-12 Conference as a pitcher. Katie Dunlop Certified Personal Trainer & Sports Nutritionist Katie Dunlop is a Certified Personal Trainer, Sports Nutritionist, and the Founder of Love Sweat Fitness. She specializes in helping others with nutrition, fitness, and lifestyle choices. Katie has also developed LSF Nutrition, a nutrition supplement line, and a mobile workout application, Love Sweat Fitness The App. With her platform and tools, she has helped over one million women and has been featured in publications such as Women’s Health, Shape, and Health. Clay Hayes Archery Expert Clay Hayes is an Archery Expert based in Idaho. He owns and operates the website Twisted Stave, where he sells merchandise, offers tutorials, and blogs about his life as an outdoorsman. Clay and his family have built an online community of over 440 thousand archery and hunting enthusiasts with their YouTube channel. Clay has authored three books and produced hundreds of videos on wilderness skills, traditional archery, bow building, and bow hunting. He received a Bachelor’s degree in Natural Resource Conservation from the University of Florida and a Master’s degree in Wildlife Ecology from Mississippi State University. Jordan Frazier Knot Tying Expert Jordan Frazier is a Knot Tying Expert based in Middleburg, Florida. He has over 8 years of experience with knot tying–he started out with the craft as a hobby, and has expanded over time into knot tying as a vocation. He is the owner and operator of Paracord and What Knot, an online small business that is a “one stop knot shop”. He sells custom wrapped steering wheels, lanyards, keychains and a variety of other related products. He is skilled in the art of nautical fancywork and accepts custom commissions through his business. He has curated an online community of over 13K followers on Instagram with his knot tying content and how-to’s. In addition to his knot tying work, Jordan has a career as a Machinery Technician with the U.S. Coast Guard, which he has been doing for over 10 years. Alec Torelli Professional Poker Player Alec Torelli is a professional high-stakes poker player, coach, and keynote speaker based in Las Vegas, Nevada. With over 20 years in the poker industry, Alec has played high-stakes cash games all over the world, earning over $2.7 million in tournaments. In 2023, he placed 11th out of over 10,000 entrants in the WSOP Main Event, and in 2024, he placed 3rd out of over 3,000 in the WSOP Mid Stakes Championship. Alec was the first member of Doyle Brunson's “Brunson 10”, and is now an ambassador for Phenom Poker, the world’s first community-owned poker site. Alec is also the founder of Conscious Poker, a poker training platform where he works with clients to improve their decision-making process, move up in stakes, and achieve their poker goals. He also wrote The Poker Coach and shares further poker principles and insights on how to apply them to life and business on his YouTube channel, which has over 15 million views. Steve Bergeron Personal Trainer & Strength Coach Steve Bergeron is a Personal Trainer, Strength Coach, and the Co-Owner of AMP Fitness in Boston, Massachusetts. With over a decade of experience, Steve specializes in educating, guiding, and empowering his clients to develop healthy habits and reach their individual fitness goals. He holds a BS in Exercise Physiology and is an NSCA Certified Strength and Conditioning Coach (CSCS), ASCM Health and Fitness Specialist (HFS), Strong First Kettlebell Coach (SFG), and Certified Functional Movement Screen Specialist (FMS). AMP Fitness’ mission is to create a community that is inclusive and gives people the tools and support they need to succeed. Asher Smiley Self Defense Trainer Asher Smiley is the Owner and Lead Instructor at Krav Maga Revolution in Petaluma, California. Asher has earned a Tier 1 Instructor Certification in the American Krav Maga system. In 2017, he trained with the International Kapap Federation Combat Krav Maga International, completing their 7 day tactical seminar and the 8 day CKMI instructor course. Sahaj Grover Chess Grandmaster Sahaj Grover is a Chess Grandmaster, World Champion, and coach, who attained his Grandmaster title at the age of 16. He has been a World Junior Bronze Medalist, World U10 Champion, South African Open 2017 & 2018 Champion, and the Winner of the Arnold Classic 2018 & 2019. Sahaj is known for dynamic attacking skills and being an excellent endgame player. Ross Cascio Self Defense Trainer Ross Cascio is a Krav Maga Worldwide self-defense, fitness, and fight instructor. He has been training and teaching Krav Maga self-defense, fitness, and fight classes at the Krav Maga Worldwide HQ Training Centers in Los Angeles, CA for over 15 years. He helps people become stronger, safer, and healthier through Krav Maga Worldwide training. Kristi Major ACE Certified Personal Trainer Kristi Major is an ACE (American Council on Exercise) certified Personal Trainer based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Kristi has over 18 years of personal training experience and more than 90 hours of recertification study in fitness, health, nutrition, and supplementation. She is CPR and AED certified from the American Heart Association and she has a BA in Television Broadcasting. Joseph Bautista Self-Defense Specialist, Martial Arts Instructor, & 1st Aid/CPR Instructor Joseph Bautista is a Self-Defense Specialist and a Martial Arts Instructor specializing in Filipino martial arts. With over 18 years of instructing and martial arts training experience, Joseph runs Legacy Filipino Martial Arts, a Filipino martial arts school based in San Francisco, California. He also teaches self-defense with Self Defense For the People, a self-defense program with clients such as Salesforce, Airbnb, Gap, UPS, and UCSF. When not teaching self defense he is teaching CPR and 1st Aid Skills to 911 Dispatchers and Local Police Officers in the SF Bay Area with 1st Five Minutes. Alphonso White Certified Personal Trainer, CompleteBody NYC Alphonso White is a Certified Personal Trainer and Fitness Coach at CompleteBody in New York City. With over 20 years of experience in the personal fitness industry, Alphonso specializes in fat loss, toning, and functional training. As an ACE Certified Personal Trainer (ACE-CPT), he creates structured, personal workout plans geared towards short and long-term fitness goals. Alphonso also holds a BS in Nutrition and Exercise Science from Queens College and is a Black Belt in Seido Karate. Vitaly Neimer International Chess Master Vitaly Neimer is an International Chess Master and Certified Professional Chess Coach with over 15 years of training experience. He has been a part of the United States' Webster SPICE national chess champion team and is also a two-time Israeli national chess champion. Miguel Delgado Golf Expert Miguel Delgado is a Golf Expert based in San Francisco, California. Miguel played as a professional golfer on the Asian Tour for four years. He played in over 20 countries across Asia, the Middle East, and Europe, being one of a handful of Americans representing the United States. On the Tour, Miguel was best known for his mental game, statistical prowess, and hitting fairways. He played golf at the University of Notre Dame, where he earned ACC-All American Honors in 2019 after a National Championship appearance. Currently, he is an Analyst at Roadrunner Venture Studios focusing on due diligence and venture creation. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a BBA in Finance and a minor in Poverty Studies. Babis Kanellopoulos Personal Trainer Babis Kanellopoulos is a Personal Trainer and the Owner of Pod Fitness in London, UK. Babis specializes in helping clients use fitness to overcome difficulties and gain self-confidence. He has experience in kickboxing, long distance running, and martial arts. Pod Fitness sessions combine the focus of personal training with the benefits of small group, personalized, and structured training. Greg Maurer Health & Fitness Specialist Greg Maurer is a Health & Fitness Specialist and the Vice President of Fitness and Education for Workout Anytime. With over a decade of experience, he specializes in functional training, yoga, pilates, exercise and aging, home exercise programs, and numerous fitness diets. Greg holds a BS in Exercise Physiology from Temple University. Rishabh Mehan Cricket Coach Rishabhn Mehan is a Cricket Systems Operator in the United Kingdom. He has been coaching cricket in London since 2016, when he received his Level 2 Certificate in Coaching Young People and Adults Cricket (QCF). Dany Zelig Self Defense Trainer Dany Zelig is the Founder and Owner of Tactica and the Tactica Krav Maga Institute headquartered in San Francisco, California. He is a 2nd generation Israeli Krav Maga instructor of Imi Lichtenfeld, certified directly by Imi’s most senior disciple and Head of the Rank Committee. He received his Military Krav Maga Instructor certification from the Wingate Institute in Israel in 1987. Eric Martinez Clinical Performance Specialist & Registered Clinical Exercise Physiologist Eric Martinez is a Registered Clinical Exercise Physiologist and the Vice President of Infinity Sports Institute in Miami, Florida. With over a decade of experience, Eric specializes in clinical exercise physiology, human optimization, and sports science. He works with professional and Olympic athletes as well as high-risk patients. Eric holds an MS in Exercise Physiology from Barry University and is a Registered Clinical Exercise Physiologists in the State of Florida. Eric holds 15 different certifications in specialties such as strength and conditioning, injury prevention, neuro biomechanics, and Kinesio taping. He trains hundreds of coaches in Nero and Clinical Physiology certifications. Steve Horney PT, MPT, MTC, CSCS Licensed Physical Therapist Steve Horney is a Licensed Physical Therapist and the Owner of Integrated Health Sciences, a New York City-based company that provides continuing education, health care products, and manual and movement physical therapy. Steve has over 15 years of academic and professional physical therapy training and specializes in the assessment and treatment of athletes with the goal of helping them become pain-free and less susceptible to injury. Steve is also a certified strength and conditioning specialist (CSCS) from the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA). He received a BS in Health Science from Quinnipiac University in 2004 and a Masters of Physical Therapy (MPT) from Quinnipiac University in 2006. He then completed his Manual Therapy Certification (MTC) from the University of St. Augustine in 2014. Atthena Breitton, E-RYT 500 Yoga Instructor & Educator Atthena Breitton is a Yoga Alliance E-RYT 500 and Continuing Education Provider.  She is the Founder & Principal Teacher of AtthenaYoga, a boutique yoga and meditation studio in New York City.  She has been teaching since 2015, and some of her clients include NFL football player, Jordan Matthews, and Hip Hop Rapper, Lil Yachty.  In addition to her studio, Atthena teaches and lectures around the city at major corporations such as Facebook, Ernst & Young, HSBC, U.S. Bank, and WPP.  Atthena follows the path of Bhakti Yoga, a path of selfless love, devotion, and service to the Divine. Atthena holds a BS in Economics with concentrations in Finance and Management from the University of Pennsylvania. Andrey Stanev Professional Dance Instructor Andrey Stanev is a Professional Dance Instructor specializing in ballroom, Latin and wedding dance. With over 25 years of instruction and dancing experience, Andrey is also the Owner of Ballroom Dance in NYC, a studio based in Manhattan, New York and in Hawthorne, New York. He was born and raised in Bulgaria and won the Bulgarian National Championship for Ballroom and Latin Dance in 2000-2001. He has also worked at the Fred Astaire Dance Studio where he received the Award for Outstanding Performance in the advanced department of teaching. Kevin Richardson Celebrity Personal Trainer Kevin Richardson is a Celebrity Personal Trainer and the Founder of Naturally Intense Personal Training based in New York, New York. With over 30 years of experience, Kevin specializes in helping busy people achieve their fitness goals with his time-saving Naturally Intense High Intensity 10 Minute Workouts. Kevin is an International Fitness Consultant for UNICEF and one of the top lifetime natural bodybuilding champions. He is also a five-time winner of the Best of Manhattan Awards for Personal Training (2017, 2016, 2014, 2013, 2012). Kevin has been featured on CBS News and in the Wall Street Journal. Katie Prendergast Certified Personal Trainer & Nutrition Coach Katie Prendergast is a Certified Personal Trainer, Nutrition Coach, and the Owner of KPxFitness. With over seven years of coaching experience, she has expertise in helping skiers, snowboarders, and hikers build strength and endurance to enjoy more outdoor adventures. Katie earned her Personal Training Certification and Corrective Exercise Specialist Certification from The National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) and is a Pain-Free Performance Specialist (PPSC). Tara Weinberg Dancer and Dance Instructor Tara Weinberg is a professional dancer and certified dance instructor with over 30 years of dance experience and over 9 years of coaching experience. As the founder of Dance Doctor, Tara is experienced in ballroom, latin, ballet, jazz, modern, salsa, bachata, and kizomba. She offers a variety of online training, including dance courses, movement boot camps, personalized coaching, and retreats. Her YouTube channel @DanceDoctor and Instagram @dancedoctoronline where she shares dance instruction and tips for partner and solo dancing, boasts a community of over 200k followers. Tara is passionate about sharing dance and the amazing benefits that she's seen it have in people's lives. Marty Williams and Jonathan Yaffe Cycling Experts Marty Williams and Jonathan Yaffe are cycling experts from the revolutionary cycling brand Martoni. Marty is an inventor and serial entrepreneur, and the founder and CEO of Martoni, and the visionary behind the CardioSpeeder and the Super-E products. Marty also founded Let’s Go Aero, which offers a variety of transportation, storage and organizational products for the bicycle lifestyle. Jonathan is the founder and principal engineer at Javelin Mech LLC, an automotive engineering services business he founded over 11 years ago. Jonathan is a mechanical engineer with over 21 years of experience who built his first BMX bike when he was just 11 years old. Together, Marty and Jonathan have brought the Martoni bicycle products to life, with the goal of redefining the bike riding experience. Yely Rivas Yoga & Meditation Expert and Burnout Coach Yely Rivas is a mindful yoga and meditation teacher and burnout coach based in Florida. With over 20 years of experience in yoga and meditation, Yely created the Burnout Shield Method™, a system that empowers women to restore energy, release guilt, and live with balance and joy. She provides 1-on-1 self-care coaching and hosts annual yoga and self-care retreats around South America. Yely holds E-RYT 500 and YACEP certifications in Vinyasa Yoga, Functional Yin Yoga, Meditation, Yoga Anatomy, and Flexology. She previously owned a medium-sized yoga studio, and continues to accumulate thousands of hours of teaching to thousands of students. She also collaborates with Yoga Medicine, Yoga International, and Ompractice by teaching various online yoga classes in English and Spanish. Yely has a master’s degree in law from the University of Illinois. Erika Noble PCIA Certified Rock Climbing Instructor Erika Noble graduated from Stanford University with a BS in Management Science & Engineering. After competing in collegiate rock climbing competitions as part of the Stanford Rock Climbing team, Erika worked as a Rock Climbing Instructor in Lake Tahoe. She continues to boulder and climb throughout California and the Southwest. Val Cunningham Certified Dance & Yoga Instructor Val Cunningham is a Choreographer, Lead Dance Instructor, and Certified Yoga Instructor at The Dance Loft, a dance studio based in San Francisco, California. Val has over 23 years of dance instruction, performance, and choreography experience and specializes in ballroom, Latin, and swing dancing. She is also trained in house, hip-hop, jazz, ballet, and modern dance, and has studied with world renouned dancers such as Tom Slaterand Richard Lambarty. She is ISTD (Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing), ProDVIDA (Professional Dance Vision International Dance Association), and Zumba certified. She is a member of the National Dance Council of America. Jesse Gaynor Fitness and Health Trainer Jesse Gaynor is a Fitness and Health Trainer and the Owner of Jesse Gaynor Fitness & Wellness, which is based in the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area. With over 15 years of experience, he specializes in personal training, nutrition, and pain and injury recovery. He earned a Bachelor’s degree in Kinesiology and Exercise Science and an Associate’s degree in Psychology from The University of Southern California. Julee Peck Jones Taekwondo Expert Julee Peck Jones is a Taekwondo Expert and the Owner of Pecks TaeKwonDo America in Raleigh, North Carolina. Julee has over 35 years of experience and teaches self-defense, the benefits of exercise, and leadership development. The objective of her work is to help improve physical health and build confidence for students of all ages through martial arts training. She was Taekwondo America's President & CEO from 2013 to 2017 and is a licensed Master Instructor. She received her B.A. in Psychology and Theater Arts from the University of St. Thomas, Texas. Francisco Pham Firearms Instructor Francisco Pham is a Firearms Instructor and the owner of Apex Pistol Training based in Maryland. Francisco has over 16 years of professional experience in competition shooting and firearms training. He is a highly skilled NRA-recommended firearm instructor and is an expert on firearm safety, usage, and maintenance. Robin Abellar Certified Personal Trainer Robin Abellar is an ACE Certified Personal Trainer, 200hr Certified Yoga instructor, Certified POP Pilates instructor, Barre instructor, and Certified Running Coach based in California. Abellar specializes in yoga, weight loss, and toning and provides digital coaching via her personal fitness consulting business, Healthfully Lean. OrthoNOW Orthopedic Professionals OrthoNOW is a network of orthopedic, rehabilitative, and emergency care professionals based in the Miami, Florida metro area. Providing services such as diagnosis, digital x-ray, ultrasound, fluoroscopy, MRI, and pre-concussion testing, OrthoNow focuses on an alternative urgent care delivery model. OrthoNOW was founded by Alejandro Badia, MD, FACS, who completed his MD at New York University and completed fellowships at Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and in Freiburg, Germany. Adam Falla Field Hockey Coach Adam Falla is a Field Hockey Coach and the Director at Leap Hockey in Austin, Texas. Adam co-founded Leap Hockey, an online platform to help players develop their skills & hockey fitness. Adam has been coaching for over 25 years in the UK & US and was one of the US Men's Masters Coaches at the Exin World Cup in Teresa, Spain 2018. He has also been the Head Coach at Lonestar FHC. Tsahi Shemesh Self Defense Trainer Tsahi Shemesh is a self-defense expert, specializing in Krav Maga. He began learnring Krav Maga in 1988, and trained directly under Imi Lichtenfeld, the founder of the sport. Shemesh is the Founder and Program Director of Krav Maga Experts in New York City. He has certified hundreds of instructors, trained a wide variety of professionals (including EMTs and NYPD officers), and his curriculum is taught in over a dozen countries worldwide. Lorena Bravo, MA Professional Dance Instructor & Competitor Lorena Bravo is a Dance Instructor and the Founder of Bravo Dancing Ballroom Academy based in Los Angeles, California. Specializing in ballroom dancing for both American Smooth and International Standard Divisions, Lorena has over 20 years of professional dance experience. Along with running Bravo Dancing, Lorena has served on the faculty of the American Musical and Dramatic Academy and is currently on the faculty at Chapman University’s dance department. She is also the head ballroom coach for the University of Southern California (USC) Ballroom and Latin Dance Team. Lorena holds a BA in Psychology and an MA in Bilingual Education from USC and is certified in Associate American Smooth by the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing. Claire Bowe, M.Ed., PT, Cert. MDT Physical Therapist Claire Bowe is a Physical Therapist and the Owner of Rose Physical Therapy Group, a physical therapy clinic based in Washington D.C. Claire has over 20 years of patient care experience and specializes in a personalized, one-on-one therapeutic approach to physical therapy. Claire is certified in Mechanical Diagnosis & Therapy (MDT) by the McKenzie Institute and is an Ergonomic Assessment Specialist under the United States Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA). She holds an M.Ed. in Special Education from Portland State University, an MA in Physical Therapy from Governors State University, and a BS from Oregon State University. Alex Robles, MD, NASM Certified Personal Trainer Dr. Alex Robles is a Physician, Certified Personal Trainer, and the Founder of the White Coat Trainer. Dr. Robles specializes in helping busy professionals get strong, build muscle, and lose fat. He holds a BS in Biology and an MD from Cornell University. He completed his OB/GYN Residency at New York Presbyterian Cornell. Dr. Robles is also a NASM Certified Personal Trainer. Jacob Siegel Swim Instructor Jacob Siegel is a Swim Instructor and the Founder of Superhero Swim Academy. Since 2018, Superhero Swim Academy has been a place for parents seeking comprehensive, compassionate, and quality swim instruction for their children. Jacob and his team offer both private and group lessons, as well as online video courses for those who want to learn at a distance. Their social profiles on YouTube, Facebook, and TikTok have become the largest online resource hub for free, accessible information on teaching children to swim. Jacob is a Certified Lifeguard, Swim Instructor, and Scuba Diver, and has been featured in various publications, including the Epoch Times, ESPN, and Lad Bible. He also specifically has experience working with young and special needs children. Derrick Ng Badminton Coach Derrick Ng is a badminton coach based in Bellevue, WA. Derrick is a respected leader and accomplished coach in the badminton world, with a distinguished history as a player. With over 22 years of coaching experience, Derek is the Head Coach at Bellevue Badminton Club with three locations in Bellevue, Renton, and Mukilteo. At Bellevue, he leads a thriving program of over 700 athletes and manages a team of 30+ coaches. He also served as Head Coach for Team USA at the 2025 Pan Am Cup. As a coach, he has helped over a thousand kids each year build a strong foundation in learning badminton and is passionate about helping his students become great players. He has played badminton for over 32 years and was on the Canadian National Team for 7 years. He achieved a top-25 world ranking in men's doubles, won the Canadian National Champion title 11 times, is a 9-time Pan American Champion, and has won 39 medals in international tournaments. Tamika Tucker Fitness and Lifestyle Coach & Bodybuilder Tamika Tucker is a fitness and lifestyle coach & bodybuilder based in Miami, Florida. With over 12 years of athletic experience, Tamika’s background includes being a former Track & Field All-American and NFL cheerleader. She most recently became a professional bodybuilder as an IFBB Figure Pro and is an ISSA certified personal trainer. Tamika offers in-person personal training and online coaching through TamikaTFitness, specializing in body recomposition and weight loss, muscle building and strength training, contest prep and posing, and nutritional guidance and lifestyle coaching. She has a master’s degree in Leadership and Management from the University of Wisconsin - Green Bay and a nursing degree (LPN). Chad McLean Bowling Expert Chad McLean is a professional bowler, a bowling ball designer, and the Technical Director at Storm Products based in Brigham City, Utah. He started playing at just three years old, and developed a passion for bowling that carried through high school into his adult life. After bowling for nearly his entire life, during college Chad managed a pro shop at a local bowling alley where he learned through hands-on experience all about fitting hands, drilling balls, and the science of bowling ball manufacturing. He’s internationally recognized as one of the most sought-after ball drillers and technical coaches in the world. He has worked for 10 years at Storm Products and oversees ball development for multiple brands, shipping bowling balls worldwide. Chad has multiple 300 games and 800 series and has been inducted into the Guinness Book of World Records seven times for bowling-related feats, most recently for the “Tallest Stack of Bowling Balls” with 11 balls broken at Storm headquarters. He currently holds the record for the “Most Strikes in 60 Seconds” at 12 strikes and the “Most Bowling Balls Held Simultaneously” with 16 balls. He also travels globally to teach bowling, conduct seminars, and educate others on the technical aspects of the sport. Jarod Carter, DPT, CMT Physical Therapist Jarod Carter is a Physical Therapist, Consultant, and the Owner of Carter Physiotherapy, a manual physical therapy clinic in Austin, Texas focused on manual therapy as well as telehealth services to resolve pain and injuries. Dr. Carter has over 15 years of professional physical therapy experience. He received a DPT (Doctor of Physical Therapy) and an MTC (Manual Therapy Certification) from the University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences. Dr. Carter also holds a BS in Kinesiology from the University of Texas at Austin. Jason Whalen Certified Personal Trainer Jason Whalen is a Certified Personal Trainer and the Owner of JWWFitness in Scottsdale, Arizona. With over a decade of experience, Jason specializes in strength, core, endurance, and plyometric training programs for those looking to improve their fitness, overall health, and sports performance. He holds a BA in Exercise Science from Eastern New Mexico University. Jason is also a Nutrition Therapist and a Member of the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA). He was voted the Best of 2012 for Personal Trainers by Kudzu and was featured in Echo Magazine. Hebert Aguilar Professional Dancer & Choreographer Hebert Aguilar is a Professional Dancer, Choreographer, and the Director of Timba Heat Dance Company. With more than a decade of experience, he specializes in performing and teaching dance styles such as Cuban Salsa, Hip-Hop, and Acrobatics. Hebert has performed at a variety of venues and locations including San Francisco, Washington, Hawaii, and Miami. Emilia Richeson-Valiente Certified Dance-Aerobics Instructor Emilia Richeson-Valiente is an AFAA Certified Dance-Aerobics Instructor and the founder of Pony Sweat Aerobics. Located in Los Angeles, CA, Pony Sweat started in 2014 as a way to share joyful, non-competitive dance with others. Emilia has since brought Pony Sweat events to cities throughout the country like New York City, San Francisco, Boston, and more. She has performed at events ranging from neighborhood punk shows to Coachella Music Festival, and has choreographed dance aerobics routines for the music videos of Alice Bag, Hayley Williams, Gal Pals, Shark Toys, and Wallows. Emilia received a BFA in Acting from Emerson College. Vanessa Kelly Master Pilates Educator Vanessa Kelly is the Founder and CEO of Function Pilates, based in Arizona. With over 15 years of experience in Pilates instruction, she specializes in postural alignment, movement science, instructor training, and mentorship. Vanessa earned her comprehensive certification through Body Arts and Science International (BASI) in 2009, became a Nationally Certified Pilates Teacher (NCPT) in 2010, and holds a Postural Alignment Specialist (PAS) certification from Egoscue University. In 2014, she founded Function Pilates Studio, which has grown to three studio locations. Vanessa later developed her own comprehensive teacher training curriculum, Function Pilates Teacher Training, offering both in-person and online certification programs. Her mission is to elevate the Pilates profession through education, hands-on mentorship, and empowering instructors to grow with confidence and skill. Alison Buchanan Yoga Instructor Alison Buchanan is a Power Vinyasa Yoga Teacher based in Seattle, Washington. She completed over 300 hours of training with yoga instructor, Baron Baptiste, and is a certified Baptiste Teacher. She is a teacher with The Art of Yoga Project, a non-profit organization that brings the mindfulness of yoga to teenage girls in the California Justice System. Jasper Sidhu, DC Board Certified Chiropractor Dr. Sidhu is a Chiropractor in Toronto with more than 20 years of experience. He received his DC from Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College in 1994, and later completed a 3 year Certification in Rehabilitation. Cassie Wakin Pain & Posture Specialist Cassie Wakin is a Pain & Posture Specialist based in Austin, Texas. With more than 11 years of experience, she specializes in fitness coaching, intuitive eating nutrition counseling, and addressing back pain, poor posture, and joint pain. Cassie holds a Human Biomechanics Specialist Certification from Functional Patterns and is an Anthem Award winning trainer. Ross Dempsey Personal Trainer Ross Dempsey is a Personal Trainer, Health Coach, and the Host of The Progression Health Podcast. With over six years of experience working with clients in one-on-one personal training, Ross uses science-based health coaching to help individuals achieve their goals. He holds a Bachelors degree in Sports and Exercise from the Waterford Institute of Technology and a Master’s degree in Exercise Physiology from the National University of Ireland, Galway. Tyler Courville Professional Runner Tyler Courville is a brand ambassador for Salomon Running. He has run in 10 ultra and mountain races across the United States and Nepal, and won the 2018 Crystal Mountain Marathon. Justin Conway American Ninja Warrior Competitor & Consultant Justin Conway is an American Ninja Warrior competitor and the owner of World Ninja Sport, a ninja obstacle course company that provides obstacle design, construction, ninja coach certifications, and ninja curricula. With over seven years of experience, Justin specializes in helping gyms create and expand ninja programs along with certifying Ninja Warrior coaches. Justin holds a BS in Psychology from New York University, and he is the creator of the world’s first Ninja Coach Certification, SPOTTED. Justin is a founding member of Ninja USA and a founding board member of the National Ninja League. He is a three-time competitor and a six-time Las Vegas course tester for American Ninja Warrior. Justin is a certified level two parkour instructor and the host of the New York Ninja competition series. Daniel Krug Rock Climbing Expert Daniel Krug is a rock climbing expert and the Founder and Lead Guide at Climb Denver in Colorado. Daniel has extensive experience with rock climbing and BASE jumping, with over 10 years of professional climbing guide experience guiding nearly 15,000 people. Climb Denver is an adventure-guiding service that focuses on the individual while offering real climbing experiences. He specializes in working with beginners of all ages and with those who have doubts or fear of heights, and he emphasizes a non-judgmental and positive approach. Dannica Robertson Dance Instructor Dannica Robertson is a professional dancer, choreographer, and instructor with over two decades of experience in the dance industry. She is the founder of Outlaw Dance, a premier country dance company based in Calgary, Alberta, specializing in country swing, line dance, and performance choreography. With a background in competitive dance, Dannica has trained in jazz, tap, ballet, hip-hop, acro, and lyrical since childhood, later expanding into cheerleading and professional performance. She founded Outlaw in 2014, and is the organizer of all of Outlaw's lessons, including weekly group lessons, corporate bookings, private lessons, and wedding choreography. Dannica has danced on some of Canada’s biggest stages, from The Calgary Stampede’s Young Canadians program to winning a Grey Cup ring as a CFL cheerleader for the Calgary Stampeders. Her work extends beyond the stage into the world of music videos, live performances, corporate events, and wedding choreography, where she blends technical skill with storytelling. Dannica has choreographed and performed alongside major country artists and continues to share her passion for dance through teaching and community engagement. Gazmine Mason Bowling Expert Gazmine "GG" Mason is a 4x Gold Medalist and 2x World Champion from Providence, Rhode Island. She is the first African-American to win singles and all-events gold medals for Team USA. As a professional bowler, GG is committed to being a global ambassador for her sport.  She launched Got Game, striving to make bowling as popular as traditional sports like basketball and football while also championing all non-traditional sports. GG is the founder of Black Girls Can Bowl 2, dedicated to empowering Black women and women of color who are underrepresented in the sport. The initiative focuses on providing educational resources and dismantling mental limitations. She also established the Gazmine Mason Foundation, with a mission to foster education, health, and nutrition to under-resourced youth and individuals through the sport of bowling. GG earned a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Minor in Informatics from the University of Nebraska. During her time there, she made four consecutive appearances to the NCAA National Bowling Championships, capturing the championship title in her sophomore year. Jourdan Evans, DPT DPT in Physical Therapy, St. Ambrose University Jourdan Evans is an ACE (American Council on Exercise) certified Personal Trainer based in Los Angeles, California. She received her DPT in Physical Therapy from St. Ambrose University in 2012 and received her ACE certification in 2013. Ellen East Yoga Instructor Ellen East is a Certified Yoga Instructor based in Hartwell, Georgia. She has been a yoga practictioner for over 25 years, and owned and operated her own yoga studio, Studio 4 WholeHealth, from 2017 through 2021.  She received her 200RYT certification from Yoga Alliance. She became a Certified Health Coach with the Institute for Integrative Nutrition in 2018. Ellen is an entrepreneur, simultaneously pursuing hospitality businesses in tandem with her yoga teaching career. She currently owns and operates The Beacon, a bed and breakfast located on Lake Hartwell in Hartwell, Georgia. She continues to teach, offering yoga classes and events at The Beacon. Alex Jamal Personal Trainer and Nutritionist Alex Jamal is a certified personal trainer, strength and conditioning coach, and nutritionist based in Los Angeles, California. With over 19 years of experience, Alex creates tailored fitness training programs catering to both men and women, and has worked with celebrities, elite athletes, and more. He is also a distinguished men’s physique international competitor, fitness model, and an International Fitness and Bodybuilding Federation Chairman. Alex has competed at the Arnold Classic, Mr. Olympia, and the World Fitness Championship. Alex has a BS in Sports and Exercise Nutrition from Oxford Brookes, England. Sandy Walters Yoga Teacher Sandy Walters is a yoga teacher, educator, and health and wellness guide. With over 22 years of practicing yoga and over 5,000 hours of teaching experience, Sandy is the founder of Namaste North Yoga Studio. She has received two 200-hr yoga training certifications and a 500-hr yoga training certification. Sandy is also a certified Functional Diagnostic and Nutrition Practitioner, and has certifications in fascial release, Vedic counseling, and yoga and grief. She is currently pursuing yoga therapy training in clinical settings. While originally turning to yoga after a knee injury, Sandy is now a firm believer that yoga can help anyone to find ease and a grounded presence in their daily life. She offers in-person and virtual group sessions, private sessions, workshops, teacher training, health coaching, and more. Richa Jauhari BollyX Regional Trainer, NASM certified Personal Trainer, Choreographer, Fitness & Mental Health Author Richa Jauhari is BollyX Regional Trainer for Southern California based in Glendale, California. With over 10 years of experience as an instructor and choreographer, she specializes in Bollywood fusion dances. She holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Architecture from the University of Toronto and a Master’s in Marriage & Family Therapy from Brandman University. She has also earned a certification as a personal trainer from the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) and an Athletics and Fitness Association of America (AFAA) certification in group exercise. She has published articles on fitness & mental health in notable online publications such as Brown Girl Magazine, Medium, BollyX Life, and India Currents. Drew Hutchins Associate Head Soccer Coach, Cornell University Drew Hutchins is the Associate Head Coach for the Men's Varsity Soccer Team at Cornell University. Hutchins also played on the Stanford University Men's Varsity Soccer Team from 2010-2014. Gavin Nelson Sailing Instructor Gavin Nelson grew up on the coast of Connecticut sailing from a very young age. He has taught sailing camps to numerous age groups both in Connecticut and in the Lake Tahoe area. George Rego Martial Arts Expert George Rego is a lifelong Martial Arts Expert, Self-Defense expert, and Author of the book, The Founding of Jujutsu & Judo In America. With over 30 years of experience, he specializes in the self-defense arts of Jukido Jujitsu and Kokondo Karate. He is currently a 5th-degree black belt in jujitsu (jiu-jitsu) and a 3rd-degree black belt in karate. While he has been a successful competitor, including being the 2015 National Freestyle Judo Lightweight Champion, his focus remains on learning and teaching martial arts for real-world self-defense. He is the National Jujitsu Director for the IKA and the Chief Instructor of the most well-attended Jukido Jujitsu school in the world, the Jukido Academy in Palm Coast, Florida, where he teaches people from all walks of life - from those with special needs to those who serve in the military special forces. Scott Yonehiro Personal Trainer & Gym Owner Scott Yonehiro is a personal trainer and gym owner based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 26 years of experience, he is the founder of SY Performance and creator of his proprietary 90 Day Body Transformation Program. SY Performance brings a unique hybrid fitness and business coaching model, focusing on fitness, nutrition, and mindset exercises to help their clients improve performance in their personal and professional lives. Scott has worked with a variety of clients, including celebrities, actors, CEOs, and executives. Looking ahead, Scott has partnered with Dr. Amir Larian to co-found the Advanced Longevity Center in Burbank, CA, supporting men and women 50 years or older with longevity treatments, IV vitamin blends, peptides, TRT, and more. He has been sharing fitness content on YouTube since 2008 and has contributed to various publications in fitness and health magazines including NewsBreak. Herb Perez Taekwondo Grand Master Herb Perez is the 1992 Olympic gold medalist in Taekwondo. Perez has created the USA Taekwondo Coach and Athlete development curriculum, and is now serving as Chairman of the Education Committee for the World Taekwondo Federation. Daniel Leon Professional Soccer Player Daniel Leon played professional soccer in Spain and Poland from 2011-2013. Before playing professionally, he played on the Stanford University Varsity Soccer Team. Bobby Warshaw Professional Soccer Player Bobby Warshaw is a former American professional soccer player. Bobby played collegiate soccer at Stanford University from 2007-2010 and played professionally for FC Dallas, GAIS, Bærum SK, Hønefoss BK, and Penn FC. He now is a sports analyst, writer, and author. Cynthia Barboza Professional Volleyball Player Cynthia Barboza was a member of the USA Women's Volleyball Team for 10 years. She spent 4 years as the outside hitter for Stanford University and played professionally in Japan, Russia, and Italy. Eric Kottke Triathlon Coach Eric Kottke has been doing triathlons for over 18 years. He completed his first sprint distance triathlon in LA in 1997. Henry Brown Ultimate Frisbee Athlete Henry Brown played ultimate frisbee at Santa Clara University from 2013-2017. Reena Vokoun, MA Fitness Instructor Reena Vokoun is an ACE certified fitness and dance instructor in California with over 10 years of fitness training experience. Reena is also the Founder of Passion Fit, a health, wellness, and fitness lifestyle company. Her work has been featured in Shape, Working Mother, and Thrive Global. She is a member of IDEA Fitness and certified through the American Council on Exercise (ACE), the Athletics and Fitness Association of America (AFAA), and the American Heart Association (AHA). She has a MS in Advertising and Communications from Boston University. Andre Martins Owner, Orlando Kart Center Andre Martins is the founder and owner of Orlando Kart Center in Florida. He has worked with go-karts for over 25 years and has raced go-karts around the world. As manager for Tony Kart USA Racing Team, Andre has won numerous national championships, including Stars of Karting, the Florida Winter Tour, and the Rotax Championship. Misty Benson Soccer Coach Misty Benson is a Soccer Coach and Academic Specialist in Plano, Texas. She has been the head coach of high school soccer teams since 2003 and the Coordinator for US Soccer National Teams since 2013. She has a Master’s Degree in Educational Administration from Texas A&M-Commerce. Clare Flanagan Former Competitive Runner Clare Flanagan is a former competitive NCAA Division I cross-country runner for Stanford University. She has been running for over a decade, previously having won six Class A State Championships in Minnesota, set a Class A State record in the 1600m, and qualifying for the Nike Cross Country Nationals. Pasquale Antonio, CPT, RYT-500 Martial Artist, Yoga, & Fitness Instructor Pasquale Antonio is a Martial Artist, Yoga Instructor, Fitness Instructor, and the Founder of Jiyu, a holistic approach to health and movement practices. Pasquale is also the assistant instructor at NC Systema in Durham, North Carolina. Utilizing the principles of Eastern principles of yoga, internal martial arts, bodywork, and Western principles of exercise and behavioral sciences, Pasquale helps students of all ages cultivate their long-term health, creativity, and personal goals. Pasquale is a Certified Personal Trainer by the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM), a Certified Systema Instructor, a Certified Yoga Instructor, and a Certified Authentic Thai (MAT) Massage Practitioner. Rosa Santana Iyengar Yoga Therapist Rosa Santana is a Yoga Therapist in private practice specializing in back pain, and neurological conditions such as MS. She mentors and trains yoga teachers in South Florida and internationally since 1995. She had the good fortune to study with Yoga Master BKS Iyengar, and his daughter Geeta, in India numerous times. She is the founder of Yogarosa, which became the hub of Iyengar Yoga in South Florida. In 2020, she closed the physical location, and embraced a new era of online teaching. Yogarosa offers live-streamed classes and workshops, and Rosa leads workshops and retreats locally and internationally.  Rosa is a Level 3 Certified Iyengar Yoga Teacher and Certified by the International Association of Yoga Therapists. Rosa habla Español y fala Portugues. She is passionate about sharing the spark of yoga to help reduce chronic pain, and attain peace of mind. Desiree Sanchez Pilates Instructor and Teacher Trainer Desiree Sanchez is a Pilates Instructor and the owner of Functional Strength Pilates based in Lone Tree, Colorado. With over 27 years of experience teaching Pilates, Desiree is the founder of the Functional Strength Pilates Teacher Training program, offering an in-depth and uniquely supported comprehensive Classical Pilates Teaching Training. Desiree completed her initial Pilates training in 1999, completed master’s training in 2008, and served on the staff at The Pilates Center in Boulder, Cololrado for over 10 years in addition to guest teaching throughout the US and Europe. She has extensive experience leading workshops for clients, teacher training, and continuing education. She has been a frequent presenter of both classes and workshops at the Pilates Method Alliance member meetings and other conferences. Christine Amber Certified Riding Instructor Christine Amber runs a horsemanship equestrian services business in California, where she trains both riders and horses. Christine has over 30 years of horse training experience and is certified by the American Riding Instructors Certification Program, Certified Horsemanship Association, and the American Association for Horsemanship Safety. Gary Petrin Basketball Coach Gary Petrin is the owner and president of AVCSS Basketball, which provides resources for youth basketball coaches. He has over 30 years of experience coaching basketball at various levels. Mark Vinci Self Defense Trainer Mark Vinci is the director of Model Mugging Self Defense, the original adrenaline stress training system that developed the padded assailant in 1971. The program was founded from studying thousands of assaults, drawing from numerous disciplines, and applying this information with martial arts and martial science teaching methodologies. In the mid 1990’s Mark consolidated the Model Mugging System into the Five Principles of Self Defense© while updating the criminology research and curriculum. He has law enforcement, military, and martial arts background, and a master’s degree in forensic psychology. Jean Franco Vergaray Professional Dance Instructor Jean Franco Vergaray is a dancer specializing in salsa dancing. Jean Franco was also formerly the owner of Salsa In Queens, a community, dance-oriented studio for beginners and experienced dancers alike, based in Queens, New York City. He has over 13 years of dancing experience and over eight years of dance instruction experience. Andrés Alarcón Sahaja Yoga Practitioner Andrés Alarcón is a sahaja yoga practitioner with over 26 years of sahaja yoga training experience. Andrés has traveled to more than 30 countries meditating and sharing experiences learned from Guru Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi. He also participates in public and cultural programs free of cost to spread the self-realization experience and the message that we can know ourselves without needing to pay for doing so. Jesse Blough Ultra-Endurance Athlete Jesse Blough is an ultra-endurance athlete who competes in ultramarathons, ultra-distance bikepacking races, and has pursued FKTs (fastest known time records). He is the Executive Director of Northwest Competitive Adventure, an organization that supports ultra-endurance athletes and provides financial, educational, and equipment sponsorships to BIPOC adventurers as well as athletes from other marginalized communities through the Adventure Access Fund. Jesse regularly competes in road & gravel cycling races, and has volunteered, directed, or otherwise supported nearly every variety of athletic event. Douglas Havens Equestrian Expert Douglas Havens is an Equestrian Expert based in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. Douglas is the Owner and CEO of Havens Hideout Ranch and has over 40 years of experience riding and training horses. He grew up on a cattle ranch working cows and horses and this experience evolved into a lifelong passion for training horses. He is part of the Wild Mustang training incentive program through BLM (Bureau of Land Management) and has trained over 10 horses through this program. He founded Havens Hideout Ranch to introduce the East to the West and share his love for horses and the Cowboy lifestyle with the residents of Pennsylvania. At Havens Hideout Ranch, Douglas offers a myriad of services, including guided western trail rides, private events and parties, horsemanship clinics, and more. Stu Johnson Mountain Guiding Expert Stu Johnson is a Mountain Guiding Expert. Stephanie Jeronymo Exotic Dancer and Pole Dancer Stephanie Jeronymo is a Exotic Dancer and Pole Dancer. Michael Lin Pool and Billiards Expert Michael Lin is a Pool and Billiards Expert. Raven Eastwood Jousting and Medieval Weaponry Expert Raven Eastwood is a Jousting and Medieval Weaponry Expert. Education & Teaching Grace Imson, MA Math Instructor, City College of San Francisco Grace Imson is a math teacher with over 40 years of teaching experience. Grace is currently a math instructor at the City College of San Francisco and was previously in the Math Department at Saint Louis University. She has taught math at the elementary, middle, high school, and college levels. She has an MA in Education, specializing in Administration and Supervision from Saint Louis University. Christopher Taylor, PhD English Professor Christopher Taylor is an Adjunct Assistant Professor of English at Austin Community College in Texas. He received his PhD in English Literature and Medieval Studies from the University of Texas at Austin in 2014. Joseph Meyer Math Teacher Joseph Meyer is a High School Math Teacher based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is an educator at City Charter High School, where he has been teaching for over 7 years. Joseph is also the founder of Sandbox Math, an online learning community dedicated to helping students succeed in Algebra. His site is set apart by its focus on fostering genuine comprehension through step-by-step understanding (instead of just getting the correct final answer), enabling learners to identify and overcome misunderstandings and confidently take on any test they face. He received his MA in Physics from Case Western Reserve University and his BA in Physics from Baldwin Wallace University. Anne Schmidt Chemistry Instructor Anne Schmidt is a Chemistry Instructor in Wisconsin. Anne has been teaching high school chemistry for over 20 years and is passionate about providing accessible and educational chemistry content. She has over 9,000 subscribers to her educational chemistry YouTube channel. She has presented at the American Association of Chemistry Teachers (AATC) and was an Adjunct General Chemistry Instructor at Northeast Wisconsin Technical College. Anne was published in the Journal of Chemical Education as a Co-Author, has an article in ChemEdX, and has presented twice and was published with the AACT. Anne has a BS in Chemistry from the University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh, and an MA in Secondary Education and Teaching from Viterbo University. Alexander Ruiz, M.Ed. Educational Consultant Alexander Ruiz is an Educational Consultant and the Educational Director of Link Educational Institute, a tutoring business based in Claremont, California that provides customizable educational plans, subject and test prep tutoring, and college application consulting. With over a decade and a half of experience in the education industry, Alexander coaches students to increase their self-awareness and emotional intelligence while achieving skills and the goal of achieving skills and higher education. He holds a BA in Psychology from Florida International University and an MA in Education from Georgia Southern University. David Jia Academic Tutor David Jia is an Academic Tutor and the Founder of LA Math Tutoring, a private tutoring company based in Los Angeles, California. With over 10 years of teaching experience, David works with students of all ages and grades in various subjects, as well as college admissions counseling and test preparation for the SAT, ACT, ISEE, and more. After attaining a perfect 800 math score and a 690 English score on the SAT, David was awarded the Dickinson Scholarship from the University of Miami, where he graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration. Additionally, David has worked as an instructor for online videos for textbook companies such as Larson Texts, Big Ideas Learning, and Big Ideas Math. Jake Adams Academic Tutor & Test Prep Specialist Jake Adams is an academic tutor and the owner of Simplifi EDU, a Santa Monica, California based online tutoring business offering learning resources and online tutors for academic subjects K-College, SAT & ACT prep, and college admissions applications. With over 14 years of professional tutoring experience, Jake is dedicated to providing his clients the very best online tutoring experience and access to a network of excellent undergraduate and graduate-level tutors from top colleges all over the nation. Jake holds a BS in International Business and Marketing from Pepperdine University. Ashley Pritchard, MA School Counselor Ashley Pritchard is an Academic and School Counselor at Delaware Valley Regional High School in Frenchtown, New Jersey. Ashley has over 3 years of high school, college, and career counseling experience. She has an MA in School Counseling with a specialization in Mental Health from Caldwell University and is certified as an Independent Education Consultant through the University of California, Irvine. Emily Listmann, MA Academic Tutor and Life Coach Emily Listmann is a Private Tutor and Life Coach in Santa Cruz, California. In 2018, she founded Mindful & Well, a natural healing and wellness coaching service. She has worked as a Social Studies Teacher, Curriculum Coordinator, and an SAT Prep Teacher. She received her MA in Education from the Stanford Graduate School of Education in 2014. Emily also received her Wellness Coach Certificate from Cornell University and completed the Mindfulness Training by Mindful Schools. Katie Styzek School Counselor Katie Styzek is a Professional School Counselor for Chicago Public Schools. Katie earned a BS in Elementary Education with a Concentration in Mathematics from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She served as a middle school mathematics, science, and social studies teacher for three years prior to becoming a counselor. She holds a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in School Counseling from DePaul University and an MA in Educational Leadership from Northeastern Illinois University. Katie holds an Illinois School Counselor Endorsement License (Type 73 Service Personnel), an Illinois Principal License (formerly Type 75), and an Illinois Elementary Education Teaching License (Type 03, K – 9). She is also Nationally Board Certified in School Counseling from the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. Megan Callaghan, PhD Academic Advisor Megan Morgan is an Academic Advising and Writing expert based in Augusta, Georgia. She has over 7 years of university teaching experience and more than 15 years of professional editing experience. She works as an intern for the Law Library of Congress, and is also a Professional Writing Center Consultant at Augusta University. Her key academic interests involve reference and subject librarianship, government information, and information organization. She provides personalized writing instruction, workshops, and support for AU students, faculty, and staff. Previously, she worked as a Graduate Program Administrator at the University of Georgia’s School of Public and International Affairs. She was a Graduate Advisor for three degrees in the departments of Political Science and International Affairs at the University of Georgia College of Arts and Sciences. She earned her Master’s in Library and Information Science from Valdosta State University. She also received both a PhD and MA in English from The University of Georgia, and a BA in English and Creative Writing from the Mississippi University for Women. She wrote her PhD dissertation on narrative structure and social change in novels by 18th-century British women writers. Language Academia Language Tutors Language Academia is a private, online language school founded by Kordilia Foxstone. Kordilia and her team specialize in teaching foreign languages and accent reduction. Language Academia offers courses in several languages, including English, Spanish, and Mandarin. Alicia Oglesby Professional School Counselor Alicia Oglesby is an Academic Counseling Expert based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She is currently pursuing a PhD in Education at the University of Pittsburgh and working as a Graduate Research Assistant. She was previously employed as the Associate Director of College Counseling at the Winchester Thurston School. Prior to that, she worked as a Director of School and College Counseling at 4 other secondary schools. With over twelve years of experience in academic counseling, Alicia specializes in academic advising, social-emotional skills, and career counseling. Alicia holds Professional School Counseling Certifications in both Washington DC and Pennsylvania. She has created a college counseling program in its entirety and developed five programs focused on application workshops, parent information workshops, essay writing collaborative, peer-reviewed application activities, and financial aid literacy events. Alicia holds a BS in Psychology from Howard University and a Master’s in Clinical Counseling and Applied Psychology from Chestnut Hill College. Annaliese Dunne English Teacher Annaliese Dunne is a Middle School English Teacher. With over 10 years of teaching experience, her areas of expertise include writing and grammar instruction, as well as teaching reading comprehension. She is also an experienced freelance writer. She received her Bachelor's degree in English. Jai Flicker Academic Tutor Jai Flicker is an Academic Tutor and the CEO and Founder of Lifeworks Learning Center, a San Francisco Bay Area-based business focused on providing tutoring, parental support, test preparation, college essay writing help, and psychoeducational evaluations to help students transform their attitude toward learning. Jai has over 20 years of experience in the education management industry. He holds a BA in Philosophy from the University of California, San Diego. Grant Faulkner, MA Professional Writer Grant Faulkner is the Executive Director of National Novel Writing Month (NaNoWriMo) and the co-founder of 100 Word Story, a literary magazine. Grant has published two books on writing and has been published in The New York Times and Writer’s Digest. He co-hosts Write-minded, a weekly podcast on writing and publishing, and has a M.A. in Creative Writing from San Francisco State University. Felipe Corredor College Admissions Consultant Felipe is a Senior College Admissions Consultant at American College Counselors with over seven years of experience. He specializes in helping clients from all around the world gain admission into America's top universities through private, one-on-one consulting. He helps guide clients through the entire college admissions process and perfect every aspect of their college applications. Felipe earned a Bachelor's Degree from the University of Chicago and recently received his MBA. Tristen Bonacci, MEd English Teacher Tristen Bonacci is an English Teacher with more than 20 years of experience. Tristen has taught in both the United States and overseas. She specializes in teaching in a secondary education environment and sharing wisdom with others, no matter the environment. Tristen holds a BA in English Literature from The University of Colorado and an MEd from The University of Phoenix. Sean Alexander, MS Academic Tutor Sean Alexander is an Academic Tutor specializing in teaching mathematics and physics. Sean is the Owner of Alexander Tutoring, an academic tutoring business that provides personalized studying sessions focused on mathematics and physics. With over 15 years of experience, Sean has worked as a physics and math instructor and tutor for Stanford University, San Francisco State University, and Stanbridge Academy. He holds a BS in Physics from the University of California, Santa Barbara and an MS in Theoretical Physics from San Francisco State University. Daron Cam Academic Tutor Daron Cam is an Academic Tutor and the Founder of Bay Area Tutors, Inc., a San Francisco Bay Area-based tutoring service that provides tutoring in mathematics, science, and overall academic confidence building. Daron has over eight years of teaching math in classrooms and over nine years of one-on-one tutoring experience. He teaches all levels of math including calculus, pre-algebra, algebra I, geometry, and SAT/ACT math prep. Daron holds a BA from the University of California, Berkeley and a math teaching credential from St. Mary's College. Ronitte Libedinsky, MS Academic Tutor Ronitte Libedinsky is an Academic Tutor and the Founder of Brighter Minds SF, a San Francisco, California based company that provides one-on-one and small group tutoring. Specializing in tutoring mathematics (pre-algebra, algebra I/II, geometry, pre-calculus, calculus) and science (chemistry, biology), Ronitte has over 12 years of experience tutoring to middle school, high school, and college students. She also tutors in SSAT, Terra Nova, HSPT, SAT, and ACT test prep. Ronitte holds a BS in Chemistry from the University of California, Berkeley, and an MS in Chemistry from Tel Aviv University. Jessie Antonellis-John Math and Science Instructor Jessie Antonellis-John is a Math and Science Instructor who teaches at Southwestern Oregon Community College. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in curriculum development. Jessie earned her PhD in Teaching & Teacher Education from the University of Arizona, her Master of Education from Western Governors University, and her BS in Astrophysics from Mount Holyoke College. She’s also co-authored several peer-reviewed journal articles in professional publications. Michael Simpson, PhD Registered Professional Biologist Dr. Michael Simpson (Mike) is a Registered Professional Biologist in British Columbia, Canada. He has over 20 years of experience in ecology research and professional practice in Britain and North America, with an emphasis on plants and biological diversity. Mike also specializes in science communication and providing education and technical support for ecology projects. Mike received a BSc with honors in Ecology and an MA in Society, Science, and Nature from The University of Lancaster in England as well as a Ph.D. from the University of Alberta. He has worked in British, North American, and South American ecosystems, and with First Nations communities, non-profits, government, academia, and industry. Alexander Peterman, MA Test Prep Tutor Alexander Peterman is a sports journalism staff writer based in Gainesville, Florida. With over 12 years of experience, Alex is currently a staff writer for Sports Talk Florida, covering Florida Gators football and baseball at the University of Florida. He is also the owner and Editor-in-Chief for the Locker Room Update, managing a staff of 12 sports writers. Alex has previous experience as a private tutor as well. He has a BA in English Language and Literature and an MA in Education from the University of Florida. Mario Banuelos, PhD Associate Professor of Mathematics Mario Banuelos is an Associate Professor of Mathematics at California State University, Fresno. With over eight years of teaching experience, Mario specializes in mathematical biology, optimization, statistical models for genome evolution, and data science. Mario holds a BA in Mathematics from California State University, Fresno, and a Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from the University of California, Merced. Mario has taught at both the high school and collegiate levels. Bryce Warwick, JD Test Prep Tutor, Warwick Strategies Bryce Warwick is currently the President of Warwick Strategies, an organization based in the San Francisco Bay Area offering premium, personalized private tutoring for the GMAT, LSAT and GRE. Bryce has a JD from the George Washington University Law School. Courtney Copriviza Elementary School Teacher Courtney Copriviza is an Elementary School Teacher based in Maui, HI. Courtney specializes in elementary education, classroom management, and social and emotional development. She holds a BA in Communication with a minor in Urban Education and an MA in Teaching from Santa Clara University. Courtney has also taught high school in Madrid, Spain. She is a member of Kappa Delta Pi International Honors Society in Education. Laura Reber, SSP School Psychologist Laura Reber is a school psychologist and founder of Progress Parade, an organization that provides 1:1 online tutoring with hand-picked specialists to students with academic needs, ADHD, learning disabilities, autism, and social-emotional challenges. Laura works with a team of school psychologists and specialized teachers to create personalized approaches for homework support, academic intervention, homeschooling, unschooling, and more. Laura holds a BS in Psychology from Truman State University and a Specialist in School Psychology degree (SSP) from Illinois State University. Joseph Quinones Physics Teacher Joseph Quinones is a Physics Teacher working at South Bronx Community Charter High School. Joseph specializes in astronomy and astrophysics and is interested in science education and science outreach, currently practicing ways to make physics accessible to more students with the goal of bringing more students of color into the STEM fields. He has experience working on Astrophysics research projects at the Museum of Natural History (AMNH). Joseph recieved his Bachelor's degree in Physics from Lehman College and his Masters in Physics Education from City College of New York (CCNY). He is also a member of a network called New York City Men Teach. César de León, M.Ed. Educational Leadership Consultant César de León is an Educational Leadership Consultant and currently serves as an Assistant Principal for the Austin Independent School District in Austin, TX. César specializes in education program development, curriculum improvement, student mentorship, social justice, equity leadership, and family and community engagement. He is passionate about eradicating inequities in schools for all children, especially those who have been historically underserved and marginalized. César holds a Bachelor’s degree in Education and Biology from Texas State University and a Master’s degree in Educational Leadership from The University of Texas at Austin. Kim Gillingham, MA Master's Degree, Library Science, Kutztown University Kim Gillingham is a retired library and information specialist with over 30 years of experience. She has a Master's in Library Science from Kutztown University in Pennsylvania, and she managed the audiovisual department of the district library center in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, for 12 years. She continues to do volunteer work for various libraries and lending library projects in her local community. Diane Stubbs English Teacher Diane Stubbs is an English Teacher based in Dover, Delaware. She currently works as a Secondary English Teacher at Polytech School District. Diane has over 25 years of experience teaching English at each high school grade level, and has experience with a variety of AP coursework. She specializes in secondary education, classroom management, and educational technology. Diane earned a Bachelor of Arts in English with a concentration in Journalism from the University of Delaware, and a Masters Degree in Secondary Education and Teaching from Wesley College. Ted Dorsey, MA Master's Degree, Education, University of California Los Angeles Ted Dorsey is a Test Prep Tutor, author, and founder of Tutor Ted, an SAT and ACT tutoring service based in Southern California. Ted earned a perfect score on the SAT (1600) and PSAT (240) in high school. Since then, he has earned perfect scores on the ACT (36), SAT Subject Test in Literature (800), and SAT Subject Test in Math Level 2 (800). He has a BA in English from Princeton University and a MA in Education from the University of California, Los Angeles. Jennifer Kaifesh Founder, Great Expectations College Prep Jennifer Kaifesh is the Founder of Great Expectations College Prep, a tutoring and counseling service based in Southern California. Jennifer has over 15 years of experience managing and facilitating academic tutoring and standardized test prep as it relates to the college application process. She takes a personal approach to her tutoring, and focuses on working with students to find their specific mix of pursuits that they both enjoy and excel at. She is a graduate of Northwestern University. Paige Bowen, MA, EdM Physical Education Teacher Paige Bowen is a Physical Education Teacher at Oconee County Primary School in Watkinsville, Georgia. Paige has over 20 years of physical education teaching experience. She was awarded the Oconee County Primary School Teacher of the Year for 2002-2003. She received a B.S.Ed. in Health and Physical Education from the University of Georgia in 1996 and an M.Ed. in Early Childhood Education in 2003 from the same institution. Kevin Wang Math Tutor Kevin Wang is a Math Tutor based in New York, New York. Kevin has been tutoring math for over 10 years, and specializes in K-12 math topics and standardized tests, such as SAT and ACT. Kevin has an economics background and a career in both finance and marketing analytics. His interest in tutoring goes back even longer than his career. He discovered tutoring at the start of his university career and enjoys it as a way to stay sharp with fundamental skills and remain up to date with trends in our education system. Kevin received a BS in Economics from Duke University. Arash Fayz Test Prep Tutor Arash Fayz is the Co-Founder and Executive Director of LA Tutors 123, an academic consulting and private tutoring company based in Los Angeles, California. Arash has over 10 years of educational consulting experience, managing the tutoring of students of all ages, abilities, and backgrounds to score higher on standardized tests and gain admission to their target schools. He has a BA in Applied Mathematics and Computer Science from the University of California, Los Angeles. Ted Coopersmith, MBA Academic Tutor Ted Coopersmith is an Academic Tutor for Manhattan Elite Prep, a test prep and academic tutoring company based in New York City. In addition to general academic advising, Ted has expertise in preparing for the ACT, SAT, SSAT, and ASVAB tests. He also has over 30 years of financial controller advising and consulting experience. He holds a BA from the City University of New York (CUNY) and an MBA from Pace University. Katherine Demby Test Prep Specialist Katherine Demby is an Academic Consultant based in New York City. Katherine specializes in tutoring for the LSAT, GRE, SAT, ACT, and academic subjects for high school and college students. She holds a BA in History and Political Science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a JD from Yale Law School. Katherine is also a freelance writer and editor. Noah Taxis English Teacher Noah Taxis is an English Teacher based in San Francisco, California. He has taught as a credentialed teacher for over four years: first at Mountain View High School as a 9th- and 11th-grade English Teacher, then at UISA (Ukiah Independent Study Academy) as a Middle School Independent Study Teacher. He is now a high school English teacher at St. Ignatius College Preparatory School in San Francisco. He received an MA in Secondary Education and Teaching from Stanford University’s Graduate School of Education. He also received an MA in Comparative and World Literature from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and a BA in International Literary & Visual Studies and English from Tufts University. Matthew Snipp, PhD Research Fellow, U.S. Bureau of the Census C. Matthew Snipp is the Burnet C. and Mildred Finley Wohlford Professor of Humanities and Sciences in the Department of Sociology at Stanford University. He is also the Director for the Institute for Research in the Social Science’s Secure Data Center. He has been a Research Fellow at the U.S. Bureau of the Census and a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences. He has published 3 books and over 70 articles and book chapters on demography, economic development, poverty and unemployment. He is also currently serving on the National Institute of Child Health and Development’s Population Science Subcommittee. He holds a Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Wisconsin—Madison. Stacy Blackman MBA Admissions Consultant Stacy Blackman is an Admissions Consultant and the Founder of Stacy Blackman Consulting (SBC), a company that specializes in consulting individuals who want to earn Master of Business Administration (MBA) degrees. SBC offers a video series, runs live and virtual workshops, and has a publishing arm, with 25+ e-guides covering different aspects of the MBA admissions process. Stacy has professional experience working in private equity at Prudential Capital Group, launching Stryke Club, and evaluating businesses as a Resident Entrepreneur at idealab!. She earned a BS in Economics from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and an MBA from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. Cara Barker, MA Research & Instruction Librarian Cara Barker is an Assistant Professor and Research and Instruction Librarian at Hunter Library at Western Carolina University. She received her Masters in Library and Information Sciences from the University of Washington in 2014. She has over 16 years of experience working with libraries across the United States. Justine Borzumato Biology Teacher Justine Borzumato is a Biology Teacher at the Wardlaw+Hartridge School in Edison, New Jersey. Justine has been teaching biology since 2015 and has taught courses including AP Biology, Honors Biology, Epidemiology, and Anatomy and Physiology. She received her Bachelor of Science in Biology from Loyola University Maryland and a Master of Science in Biology from New York University. Taylor Klein Advanced Math Teacher Taylor Klein is an Advanced Math Teacher based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She has worked in the education field for over 10 years, including eight years as a middle school Advanced Math Teacher. She has a master’s degree in Instructional Technology and Design and a master’s degree in Educational Leadership and Administration. Marissa Levis English Teacher Marissa Levis is an English Teacher in the Morris County Vocational School District. She previously worked as an English director at a tutoring center that caters to students in elementary and middle school. She is an expert in creating a curriculum that helps students advance their skills in secondary-level English, focusing on MLA formatting, reading comprehension, writing skills, editing and proofreading, literary analysis, standardized test preparation, and journalism topics. Marissa received her Master of Arts in Teaching from Fairleigh Dickinson University. Diana Con Webber Teacher Diana Con Webber is a Teacher in Arizona. She received her Standard Elementary Education, K-8 Certificate in 2017. Carlos Valverde Ochando English and Spanish Teacher Carlos Valverde Ochando is a English and Spanish teacher and content creator based in Granada, Spain. With over 12 years of experience, Carlos currently works as a high school teacher in Spain after recently returning from a Dual language exchange program in the US. He also creates content focused on making Spanish more accessible and authentic for learners, with an emphasis on slang, accents and regional expressions across various Spanish-speaking regions. He is especially well-versed in Spain Spanish, Argentinian Spanish, and Mexican Spanish. Carlos has a degree in English Studies from the University of Granada and a Master’s in Secondary Education Teacher Training. Nathan Fox, JD LSAT Teacher, Founder of LSATdemon Nathan Fox is an LSAT teacher, the co-host of the Thinking LSAT Podcast, and the co-founder of LSATdemon. Nathan is the author of six LSAT books including The Fox LSAT Logical Reasoning Encyclopedia. He scored a 179 on the February 2007 LSAT and holds a JD from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law. Chris Hasegawa, PhD Retired Science Professor & Dean Dr. Chris Hasegawa was a Science Professor and the Dean at California State University Monterey Bay. Dr. Hasegawa specializes in teaching complex scientific concepts to students. He holds a BS in Biochemistry, a Master’s in Education, and his teaching credential from The University of California, Davis. He earned his PhD in Curriculum and Instruction from The University of Oregon. Before becoming a professor, Dr. Hasegawa conducted biochemical research in Neuropharmacology at the National Institute of Health. He also taught physical and life sciences and served as a teacher and administrator at public schools in California, Oregon, and Arizona. Richard Perkins Writing Coach Richard Perkins is a Writing Coach, Academic English Coordinator, and the Founder of PLC Learning Center. With over 24 years of education experience, he gives teachers tools to teach writing to students and works with elementary to university level students to become proficient, confident writers. Richard is a fellow at the National Writing Project. As a teacher leader and consultant at  California State University Long Beach's Global Education Project, Mr. Perkins creates and presents teacher workshops that integrate the U.N.'s 17 Sustainable Development Goals in the K-12 curriculum. He holds a BA in Communications and TV from The University of Southern California and an MEd from California State University Dominguez Hills. JohnK Wright V Texas Certified Math Teacher JohnK Wright V is a Certified Math Teacher at Bridge Builder Academy in Plano, Texas. With over 20 years of teaching experience, he is a Texas SBEC Certified 8-12 Mathematics Teacher. He has taught in six different schools and has taught pre-algebra, algebra 1, geometry, algebra 2, pre-calculus, statistics, math reasoning, and math models with applications. He was a Mathematics Major at Southeastern Louisiana and he has a Bachelor of Science from The University of the State of New York (now Excelsior University) and a Master of Science in Computer Information Systems from Boston University. Bruce Storrs Driving Instructor Bruce Storrs is a Driving Instructor and the President & CEO of North County School of Driving in San Marcos, California. With more than 31 years of experience, he specializes in teaching teens and adults safe driving behaviors in the classroom, online, and behind the wheel. Bruce earned a BA and MA from San Diego State University. Josh Jones CEO, Test Prep Unlimited Josh Jones is the CEO and Founder of Test Prep Unlimited, a GMAT prep tutoring service. Josh built the world's first and only score guarantee program for private GMAT tutoring. He has presented at the QS World MBA Tour and designed math curricula for Chicago Public Schools. He has over 15 years of private tutoring and classroom teaching experience and a BA in Math from the University of Chicago. Kiera Ayres Test Prep Instructor Kiera Ayres is a test prep instructor and English teacher based in Vancouver, BC. With over 10 years of experience teaching English, Kiera primarily works with clients learning English as a second language who are interested in immigrating to Canada, Australia, Ireland, and the UK. In 2020, she founded PROFessional PREParation, a test prep platform offering engaging, high-quality materials to support IELTS and CELPIP studies, as well as general English learning. Kiera has a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Thompson Rivers University. Daniel Santos College Admissions & Career Coach Daniel Santos is a College Admissions & Career Coach and Prepory's co-founder and CEO. Prepory is a leading college admissions consulting firm that has guided over 9,000 students from 35 countries through the US college admissions process. Prepory is a member of the National Association for College Admissions Counseling and a trusted admissions counseling partner to several competitive high schools across Florida. Prior to founding Prepory, Daniel worked at various leading law firms and the United States House of Representatives. Daniel has been featured as a college admissions and career coaching expert across several major publications, including the Wall Street Journal, FORTUNE, and The Harvard Crimson. The Eternal Epics Hindu Mythology Explorers The Eternal Epics, co-created by Madhura Sawant and Soumya Ganesh, aims to simplify complex Hindu mythology stories and make them accessible to a broader audience. Madhura and Soumya first met in college and discovered a shared interest in Hindu mythology. They decided to share these stories from ancient texts and scriptures on social media @theeternalepics. Through creating informative and easy to understand content with accompanying illustrations, The Eternal Epics are helping to foster modern lessons from ancient mythology, and have amassed over 80k followers and more than 1.7 million views. Lizzy Hanks Linguistics Researcher and Communication Educator Lizzy Hanks is a linguistics researcher and communication educator based in Tampa, Florida. Lizzy uses corpus methods to research conversation, pragmatics, and vocabulary, and shares content on these topics on social media @lana_linguistics. She also has six years of previous experience teaching English as a second language in Austria, Thailand and the US. Lizzy is an Assistant Professor in the World Language Department at the University of South Florida. Celena Hathaway English & Creative Writing Teacher Celena Hathaway is an English & Creative Writing Teacher at Cornerstone Schools of Alabama in Birmingham, Alabama. She specializes in entry-level creative writing, such as fundamental poetry and fiction short story techniques, and 8th-grade-level grammar and reading. She earned her B.S.E. in Secondary Education and B.A. in English from Samford University. Anas Abdallah Native Arabic Speaker and Translator Anas Abdallah is a native Arabic speaker and translator with over 1000 published articles on Arabic wikiHow in various fields. He currently works as a Translation Project Manager for wikiHow's Arabic project. With a dedication to ensuring flawless and high-quality Arabic content, Anas strives to create content that is accurate, engaging, and accessible to all. Cath Hakanson Global Sex Educator Cath Hakanson is a global sex educator based in Greater Perth, Australia. With over 25 years of experience, Cath believes that parents should be able to educate their children about sex in a shame-free and fear-free way. As the founder of Sex Ed Rescue and Sex Ed Shop, she is on a mission to equip parents with the tools and confidence to make sex education more comfortable. Cath has helped over 1 million people around the world by creating comprehensive sex ed materials for parents, on topics including sex, gender identity, body diversity, consent, and more. Cath has previous experience as a sexual health nurse, a post-graduate certificate in sexual health and venereology, a master's in health promotion, and a post-graduate diploma in sexology. Her work has been featured in The New York Times, Women’s Health, Cosmopolitan, and more. Adeche Atelier African Mythology Experts Adeche Atelier, also known as Adwoa Botchey and Solomon Adebiyi, are fine artists, storytellers, and content creators inspired by African mythology, folklore, and spirituality based in London, UK. The name 'Adeche' is a fusion of their surnames, symbolising the collaborative nature of their art, created together on the same canvas. With over 5 years of experience researching this field, they now share what they've learned in a bite-sized, accessible format on their social media to a community of over 580k followers. Together, they also host the Afro Mythos Podcast, releasing longer-form episodes every month that explore the world of African mythology and folklore. They have been commissioned to create paintings by major institutions, including The National Gallery London, BBC Arts, the Fitzwilliam Museum Cambridge, and EA Games in collaboration with Black Girl Gamers. They have produced digital content for The Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool and The Hayward Gallery. California Science Center Educational Non-Profit The California Science Center presents science learning for all ages through interactive exhibits, live demonstrations and exciting giant screen films. Its integrated approach includes an elementary school and education resource center, all in one location. In 2020, the Science Center's Virtual Hands-On Science Astroland and Adventureland Camp was run in partnership with wikiHow. Tracy Yun, MBA Academic & Test Prep Specialist Tracy Yun is the founder and CEO of Manhattan Elite Prep in New York, New York. With over 14 years of experience in test preparation and admissions consulting, Tracy specializes in managing educational service firms which offer test preparation classes and tutoring courses for SAT, ACT, TOEFL, IELTS, LSAT, MCAT, GRE and GMAT. They also offer K-12 homeschooling services as well as college and graduate school admissions consulting and language, computer, and career training. Tracy graduated Magna Cum Laude with a BA in Economics from California Lutheran University and holds her MBA from Columbia University Business School. Lawrence Carter Educator, Sociologist, Public Speaker, and Edutainment Creator Lawrence Carter is an educator, and edutainment creator based in San Bernardino, California. With nearly a decade of experience, Larry explores the hidden social patterns, unspoken rules, and cultural forces that shape our everyday lives through his YouTube channel. He provides a thoughtful, evidence-based lens on human behavior, on a mission to empower viewers with the tools of sociology to see their society more clearly. He received both an M.A. in Ethnic Studies and Social Sciences and a B.S. in Sociology from the University of California, San Bernardino. High Mountain Institute Outdoor Education Non-Profit The High Mountain Institute is an educational organization dedicated to helping students connect with nature, develop as leaders, and discover education at its best. For over 25 years, HMI has taken students into the wilderness of Colorado and Patagonia and fostered communities of shared responsibility, thereby creating the foundation for rigorous intellectual experiences. Janette Karaca English Language Teacher Janette Karaca is an English language teacher and a content creator based in Türkiye. With over 11 years of experience, Janette is a TESOL-certified ESL and EFL teacher and an IELTS mentor. She first started creating content online in 2020, sharing tips and free resources for professionals and second-language learners of English. Known online as @the_englishera, she has over 2 million followers and has helped 1,000+ students become confident English speakers through her courses. She currently works with Oxford University Press as their content creator, both for social media and English language courses. Janette has a bachelor’s degree in English from Polytechnic University of the Philippines. Alexandra Hamer Native German Speaker and Translator Alexandra Hamer is a native German speaker and translator based in the Philippines. Alexandra has worked as an English-to-German translator for over 10 years. She first began translating Latin to German and has had a passion for translating and languages ever since. Alexandra is experienced in a variety of fields, from personal care to online research and jurisdictional proceedings. She constantly expands her knowledge of the English language through reading literature and texts and stays up to date on German spelling, punctuation, and grammar rules as well as any recent developments of the German language. Alexandra also has over 3 years of experience as a proofreader and news brief writer. In her spare time, she likes to study foreign languages. Julia VanderHoeven Greek and Roman Mythology Expert Julia VanderHoeven is a Greek and Roman mythology and ancient history scholar. Julia is known as @museofmythology on Instagram, where she shares engaging and informative insights on mythology and history, with particular interest in Greek and Roman myths, and their influences on pop culture myths and memes. She has undergraduate degrees in French and Ancient World studies, a diploma in Latin, and a Master’s degree in Classics from Trinity College - Dublin. She is most interested in Greek mythology, doing her thesis on a feminist reading of Ovid’s Metamorphoses. Although Julia now specializes in AI and its modern use in the corporate world as a Technology Consultant, she remains passionate about ancient history and culture. Veleké Brown Educator, Organizer, and Social Innovator Veleké Brown is an Educator, Organizer, and Social Innovator, as well as the Founder of E-RoadMap, a non-profit that offers youth development programs. Through Veleke's 15 years of dedication and relentless pursuit to succeed, ERM's work today catalyzes viable change that has driven individuals to become self-reliant, own and elevate their situation, develop a healthy relationship with food, and share learned knowledge with their children and others. ERM takes a transformative approach to address food inequality and insecurity issues for BIPOC throughout Florida. Veleke's work centers around philosophies, principles, and practice. These pillars govern her approach as she strives to create capable, confident, compassionate youth and communities working together using skills to solve problems not just for themselves, but for the world. She holds a BA in Public Administration and Social Service Professions from Virginia State University, as well as a Certificate in Diversity and Inclusion from Cornell University. Emma Cairo Scandinavian Folklore & Spirituality Expert Emma Cairo is an intuitive and professional singer, a highly rated Insight Timer teacher, and an expert in Nordic folklore and nature-based spirituality. Currently based in Denmark—with roots in Sweden and many years spent in Los Angeles—she draws from the Nordic shamanic traditions of seidr, galdr, and völva chanting. She is the founder of the live sound healing sessions Nordic Music Magic, author of the Norse Magic online course, and creator of the Nordic Manifestation Chants, available on Insight Timer and through her website. Emma also hosts the Nordic Magic Link podcast, rooted in Nordic shamanism, where she explores spiritual practices through solo episodes and interviews. Her work centers on reviving ancestral spiritual traditions, reconnecting with nature, and using music as a healing tool—all as ways to find deeper grounding and a sense of magic in modern life. Thanos Sekeris Global Flag Expert Thanos Sekeris is a flag expert based in London, UK. Thanos first started creating as the FlagFluencer online in 2024, sharing his passion and knowledge of flags. On his blog and through Instagram, he shares everything from history to design and deep dives into the stories, symbolism, and history woven into flags from around the world. He has also collaborated with a kindergarten educational summer program to speak and create games about flags. Thanos also works in healthcare consulting with educational degrees, including a BSc in Biomedical Sciences and an MSc and a PhD in Pharmacology. Carrie Adkins, PhD PhD in American History, University of Oregon Carrie Adkins is the cofounder of NursingClio, an open access, peer-reviewed, collaborative blog that connects historical scholarship to current issues in gender and medicine. She completed her PhD in American History at the University of Oregon in 2013. While completing her PhD, she earned numerous competitive research grants, teaching fellowships, and writing awards. Brian Thai History Teacher and Edutainment Content Creator Brian Thai is a history teacher and edutainment content creator based in Canada. With over 5 years of experience, Brian is known as The Suit Historian on social media and shares educational and entertaining content around various periods of history, including Canadian history, Cold War history, early European history, and Chinese history. He is also the author of the book Forbidden History, which covers the more disturbing side of history and history’s hidden secrets. Brian currently works as a history teacher at Villa Maria College and has a bachelor’s degree in historical education from the University of Montreal. Austin Krance Global Geography and Flag Expert Austin Krance is a global geography and flag expert based in Los Angeles, CA. With 3 years of experience, Austin specializes in creating viral short-form content, with a focus on trivia, geography, and user interaction. He has amassed over 100k followers on Instagram and 100k followers on TikTok. Austin has also created a suite of online games around geography, sports, and words, played by thousands daily and boasting over 11 million pageviews within the first 2 weeks of game launch. Austin also has a Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Waterloo, with experience as a software engineer. Shannon Bennett, PhD Microbiologist Dr. Shannon Bennett is a Microbiologist and the Chief of Science and Harry and Diana Hind Dean of Research and Collections at the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco, California. As the Academy's first-ever Associate Curator of Microbiology, Dr. Bennett focuses her research on viruses and bacteria. Previously she has worked as an Associate Professor at the Asia-Pacific Institute of Tropical Medicine & Infectious Disease and at the University of Hawaii School of Medicine. She received her BSc from McGill University and her PhD in Zoology from the University of British Columbia. Dr. Vivek Prakash Biomedical Engineer Dr. Vivek Prakash is a Biomedical Engineer based in Oxford, Ohio. He works as a Research Associate at Miami University, working on cell-based hormone replacement therapy. He received his PhD from the Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering at the Indian Institute of Technology. Ciccio Veronese Native Italian Speaker and Translator Ciccio Veronese is a native Italian speaker and professional translator and editor based in Sicily, Italy. He has full professional proficiency in English, is certified in English-to-Italian translation, and has worked previously as an interpreter. With over 10 years of experience, Ciccio has experience spearheading Italian website localization projects at wikiHow, including successfully localizing online content and UI elements, ensuring cultural appropriateness, and leading and mentoring a team of Italian translators. Andree Baham Johnson Certified Pre-K Teacher Andree Baham Johnson is a Early Childhood Educator, Educational Consultant, and Virtual Assistant based in New Orleans, Louisiana. She received her Early Childhood Teacher Certification in 1993, and has been teaching ever since. She is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of The Learning Spot Educational Services, an educational services consultancy specializing in early learners. Since 2022, The Learning Spot has been providing tutoring services, offering parenting classes incorporating current best practices for early learners, and more. She received a BA in Elementary Education from Southern University and Agricultural and Mechanical College at Baton Rouge. Chiratikan Sanguancheep Native Thai Speaker and Translator Chiratikan Sanguancheep is a native Thai speaker and translator based in Bangkok, Thailand. Chiratikan began freelance translating in 2011 and has experience translating a variety of documentation from English to Thai and vice versa, including educational materials, articles, songs, and more. She not only has high attention to detail and strong language skills but also has the needed cultural sensitivity to create accurate content. In addition to translation experience, Chiratikan has also worked as a Project Manager, Editor, Teaching Assistant, and Product Development Executive, with extensive experience in developing English courses, test prep material, and ESL textbooks. She has a Bachelor's Degree in English language and Comparative Literature, and a Master's of Arts in English (as an International Language). Mahdi Mohajeri Native Farsi Speaker and Translator Mahdi Mohajeri is a native Farsi (Persian) Speaker based in Istanbul, Turkey. Mahdi started learning English at the young age of 6, originally from his sister who set him on a journey of learning that led him to American movies and TV shows. Mahdi worked as a simultaneous interpreter for 3 years at Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, working at anti-terrorism conferences. He also taught English at one of the top universities in Iran, Shahid Beheshti University. Mahdi is a certified Farsi-to-English translator and has also worked as an interpreter for remotely-held courts in Chicago. He also has experience in computer hardware engineering and video editing. Grace Moawad Influencer and Content Creator Grace Moawad is a 23-year-old Generation Z teacher with experience in teaching both Elementary and Middle School. Grace has a Bachelor’s Degree in Education from Point Loma Nazarene University (PLNU), and is currently pursuing her teaching credential at the PLNU Graduate campus. Carlee Rasmussen, MA Master's Degree, Curriculum & Instruction, University of Colorado-Denver Carlee Rasmussen is the Assistant Principal at South Junior High in Anaheim, California. She's also served as an Education Specialist, Professional Development Coordinator, and Special Education teacher at various schools in the Colorado and California. She received her MA in Curriculum and Instruction from the University of Colorado-Denver in 2014. She is certified in Administrative Services and Education Specialist Instruction in the State of California. Art & DIY Crafts Amy Guerrero Arts & Crafts Specialist Amy Guerrero is an Arts and Crafts Specialist and the Owner of Sunshine Craft Co., a crafting studio based in Phoenix, Arizona. Amy specializes in macrame, DIY crafting, and teaching fiber arts. She offers monthly in-person and online workshops along with having developed a range of DIY craft kits for at-home projects. Amy holds a BS in Industrial Design from Philadelphia University. She worked as a graphic designer before starting her own business. Sunshine Craft Co. is a creative hub that offers a wide range of workshops, tools, and resources for any craft project to inspire creativity and community engagement. Jeanine Hattas Wilson Professional Painter Jeanine Hattas Wilson is a Professional Painter and the President of Hattas Public Murals, Inc. With nearly 20 years of experience, Jeanine specializes in creating, overseeing, designing, and painting murals. Jeanine holds a BA in Advertising from Marquette University and a Studio Painting Minor from The Milwaukee Institute of Art & Design. She has studied at The Atelier Artien in Paris, France, Los Angeles Academy of Figurative Art, and under renowned artists such as Robert Liberace, Michael Siegel, and William Cochran. To date, Hattas Public Murals has painted nearly 5,000 commissioned works of art in homes and commercial and public spaces. Kelly Medford Professional Artist Kelly Medford is an American painter based in Rome, Italy. She studied classical painting, drawing and printmaking both in the U.S. and in Italy. She works primarily en plein air on the streets of Rome, and also travels for private international collectors on commission. She founded Sketching Rome Tours in 2012 where she teaches sketchbook journaling to visitors of Rome. Kelly is a graduate of the Florence Academy of Art. Virginia Kelley, MA Master's Degree, Art Education, SUNY-Buffalo Virginia Kelley is an artist and art teacher from New York with over 30 years of experience. She has both a Bachelor's and a Master's degree in Art Education from SUNY-Buffalo State and has taught art at the K-12 and college levels. For the last 20 years, she has focused her work and teaching on watercolor. Renee Day Crafting Expert Renee Day is a Crafting Expert and Content Creator based in Michigan. She is a master of paper crafts, and also specializes in brush lettering, journaling, embossing, stamping, stenciling, doodling, and crocheting. Her Instagram account, thediyday, has over 300K followers. She published a book called Creative Journaling: A Guide to Over 100 Techniques and Ideas for Amazing Dot Grid, Junk, Mixed-Media, and Travel Pages. The book contains 52 projects, from crafting colorful pages to creating dot grid, junk, mixed-media, and travel journals. She also created Chunky Letter Calligraphy, a 30+ page (PDF) all about lettering. She runs a thriving Amazon Storefront, where she curates craft supply collections for her followers. She previously worked as a photographer, capturing engagement sessions, weddings, boudoir, and landscapes. She received a Master’s Degree in Marriage and Family Therapy. Robert Homayoon Origami Expert Robert Homayoon is an Origami Expert known for his engaging YouTube videos and accessible instructions. He has been teaching origami on YouTube since 2009. His channel has a following of over 676,000 subscribers, and his videos have garnered over 211 million views. Robert uses his channel to highlight his passion for teaching people origami, crafts, and how to solve puzzles. He graduated from SUNY Albany in 2007 and earned his D.M.D degree from Temple University Dental School in 2013. Claire Donovan-Blackwood Arts & Crafts Specialist Claire Donovan-Blackwood is an Arts & Crafts Specialist and CEO of Heart Handmade UK, a site dedicated to helping people live a happy, creative life. With over 13 years of experience, Claire uses art as a form of therapy and focuses on mindfulness in the making of art. She makes crafting easy and accessible for those she works with. Claire received her B.A. in Photography & Visual Imagery from The University of Huddersfield. Sarah Stearns DIY Specialist Sarah Stearns is a DIY Specialist, Artist, Maker, Blogger, and the Founder of SarahMaker.com. With over ten years of experience, she specializes in fun, approachable crafts like crocheting, making polymer clay jewelry, quilting, and creating Cricut projects. Her work has been featured in several publications, such as Scientific American, Good Housekeeping, Vox, and Apartment Therapy. Sarah holds a BA in Psychology from Vanderbilt University. Renée Plevy Portrait Artist & Educator Renée Plevy is an Internationally Acclaimed Portrait Artist from New York/Palm Beach who has painted The Grand Dames of Palm Beach and various celebrities and community leaders. With over 50 years of experience, Renée specializes in painting realistically in oil and capturing the soul of the person. She has studied under internationally renowned portrait artists John Howard Sanden, David Leffel, Robert Beverly Hale, Clyde Smith, and Leonid Gervits. Renée is featured in over 68 shows and galleries including a one-woman museum show at the Paterson Museum. She has garnered numerous awards including “Artist of the Year” from The Bloomfield Art League and First Prize from the Boca Raton Museum Artist’s Guild. Renée has even painted a portrait of celebrity, Vanilla Ice. She also teaches at the Boca Raton Museum Art School - formerly at SVA in Manhattan. Natasha Dikareva, MFA Ceramics & Sculpting Instructor Natasha Dikareva is a San Francisco, California based sculptor, and installation artist. With over 25 years of ceramics, sculpting, and installation experience, Natasha also teaches a ceramic sculpture workshop titled "Adventures in Clay" covering concept development, hand-building techniques, texture, and glazing techniques. Her work has been featured in solo and group exhibitions at the Beatrice Wood Center for the Arts, Abrams Claghorn Gallery, Bloomington Center for the Arts, Maria Kravetz Gallery, and the American Museum of Ceramic Art. She has taught at the University of Minnesota and the American Indian OIC School. She has been awarded the Excellence Award at the 1st World Teapot Competition, Best in Show at the 4th Clay & Glass Biennial Competition, and a Grand Prize at the American Museum of Ceramic Art. Natasha holds an MFA from the University of Minnesota and a BFA from Kiev Fine Arts College. Nicole Bolin Crafts & DIY Specialist Nicole Bolin is a Crafting Specialist and the CEO of Stencil, a DIY Craft Studio in Phoenix, Arizona. Nicole specializes in interior design and various craft and DIY projects. Nicole holds a Certificate in Interior Design from the New York Institute of Art and Design. She opened Stencil in 2017 to teach others to create DIY projects that fit their home and lifestyle. Tanglewood Sue DIY & Upcycling Specialist Tanglewood Sue is a DIY and Upcycling Specialist and the Owner of Tanglewood Works out of Hyattsville, Maryland. With over nine years of experience, Sue specializes in upcycled painted furniture and other handmade, personalized, and sustainable goods. With her passion for art and reinvention, marketing experience, and Bachelor’s Degree in Broadcast Media, Sue has been able to create a business that not only provides quality pieces but empowers customers to create their works through her library of DIY tutorials and live demos as well as DIY supplies. Crystal Bear Professional Photographer Crystal Bear is a Professional Photographer and the Owner of Summer Bear Photography. Crystal specializes in weddings and portraits for women. She holds a BS in Interior Design and Consumer Science from San Francisco State University. Coming from a design background, Crystal brings a sense of style and artistry to her work that brings out her client’s inner confidence, showcases their beauty both inside and out, and puts them at ease. She also specializes in using the correct lighting and branding for women entrepreneurs. Swetha Shenoy Modern Calligraphy & Watercolor Artist Swetha Shenoy is a Modern Calligraphy & Watercolor Artist based in New Jersey. She is the founder of The Paisley Corner, a creative hub that provides art workshops & team-building activities for individuals and corporate teams alike. Swetha created The Paisley Corner to spread the joy of creating through her art workshops. She teaches multiple lettering techniques, including hand lettering, brush lettering, and watercolor lettering. Since founding The Paisley Corner 5 years ago, she has taught 2500+ students (adults and kids) at over 200 workshops. Notable corporate clients include Adobe, Shapeways, Rituals, Confetti, MixLife & the New York tri-state area public libraries. Prior to her career as an artist and small business owner, Swetha worked as a Software Engineer at multiple companies. She received a BS in Computer Science from Visvesvaraya Technological University and a MS in Computer Science from University of Illinois, Chicago. Mark Weiser Artist Mark Weiser is an Artist and Gallery Manager for DKW Art Gallery based in Marion, Iowa. He and his wife Deb manage the gallery, which boasts a variety of art, including paintings, ceramics, and photography. The gallery also provides art classes for the community, hosts shows, and runs events that build awareness of regional artists of all ages. Mark has also owned and operated art galleries in Florida and Georgia. He creates carved slate and wood pieces inspired by Irish and Celtic art, featuring the Gaelic language done in the ancient Ogham alphabet. Some of Mark's previous clients include CNN, Pinnacle Bank, and Collins Aerospace. He received a BS in Business Administration with minors in Education and Psychology from Emporia State University. Jen Webber Knitting Specialist Jen Webber is a Knitting Specialist and the Manager of The Quarter Stitch, a crafting store based in the French Quarter of New Orleans, Louisiana. With over 17 years of knitting and crafting experience, Jen helps educate customers and the public on best knitting practices for their DIY projects. Diane Henkler Crafting and Home DIY Specialist Diane Henkler is a Crafting and Home DIY Specialist based in Lexington, South Carolina. She is the owner and creator of InMyOwnStyle.com, a crafting, DIY, and home design blog. She started her blog in 2009, and has now been blogging about affordable decorating, creative DIYs, and lifestyle tips for 15 years. Her career background was in retail display curation, which led her into the world of DIY decorating and home design. In her blog, she features pieces on decorating inspiration, seasonal holiday decor projects, organization strategies, room makeover guides, painting tutorials, furniture restoration tips, and more. Diane’s blog demonstrates how decorating a home does not have to be hard, expensive or time consuming. Through her posts, she shares decorating advice, ideas, project how-to’s, and more, furthering her mission to help her readers create beautiful homes, especially on a budget. She also creates tutorials and educates followers on her social media crafting channels. Stephen Cardone Professional Photographer Stephen Cardone is the COO of NY Headshots, a New York City-based studio that specializes in shooting and producing headshots for individuals and businesses. Stephen has over four years of professional photography experience and over six years of documentary filmmaking experience. Stephen also works extensively as a photographer at NY Headshots. His work includes events, environmental photography, as well as headshots for actors, models, and corporate. He holds a BA in Non-fiction Writing from The New School. LaTricia Brown Master Tailor & Creative Director LaTricia Brown is a Master Tailor and Designer and the Owner of Trish B. Stylin' based in the Savannah, Georgia metro area. LaTricia has over a decade of experience including bridal design, men's and women's clothing design, and fashion show directing. She has a BFA in Fashion with a minor in Accessory Design from the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD). LaTricia has worked with W Magazine in New York City and has assisted with the personal styling of P. Diddy. She has also assisted the development of Sean John's 10-Year Anniversary Collection and appeared in the filming of Diddy's "If I Were King" Documentary. Sarah Fogle DIY Specialist Sarah Fogle is a DIY Home Improvement Specialist and the creator of Ugly Duckling House. With over a decade of experience, Sarah specializes in beginner-friendly home remodeling projects. Sarah holds an MBA from Georgia State University. She has been featured in multiple publications including Better Homes and Gardens and Make Magazine. She has also partnered with brands such as Lowe's, Home Depot, and Martha Stewart Crafts. David Julien DIY Specialist David Julien is a DIY Specialist and the Principal Owner at Nice DIY based in Quebec, Canada. David specializes in creating plans to make unique, affordable, and modern home furnishings. He holds a BA in Graphic Design from the University of Quebec Outaouais. Nice DIY uses sustainable and high-quality materials to create products that are simple to make for everyone. Garrett Faust Designer & Fabricator of Custom Wood Wall Art & Signs Garrett Faust is a Designer & Fabricator of Custom Wood Wall Art & Signs. He is also the Co-Founder of Uptown Woodworks based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. With over seven years of professional experience, Garrett and co-founder, Harrison, specialize in creating custom wood wall art and signs. They use CNC lasers and routers to cut out or engrave detailed artwork. Garrett received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of St. Thomas. Suzi Quillen Knitting and Crochet Expert Suzi Quillen is a Knitting and Crochet Expert based in Granite Falls, Washington. After honing a love of knitting and crochet and becoming a crochet pattern designer, Suzi founded Perfectly Knotty in 2014, an online hub for knitting and crochet learners and enthusiasts. Perfectly Knotty offers multiple avenues to inspire creativity in its customers, selling allergy-conscious yarns and fibers, offering crochet and knitting patterns, and providing stitching support via tips and resources. Victoria Sprung Professional Photographer Victoria Sprung is a Professional Photographer and the Founder of Sprung Photo, a wedding photography studio based in Chicago, Illinois. She has over 13 years of professional photography experience and has photographed over 550 weddings. She has been chosen for Wedding Wire's "Couple’s Choice" Award eight years in a row and The Knot's "Best of Weddings" award five years in a row. Her work has been featured in People Magazine, Time Out Chicago, Chicago Magazine, the Chicago Reader, Rangefinder, The Chicago Sun-Times, and Pop Sugar. Filip Kabashi Candlemaking Expert Filip Kabashi is a Candlemaking Expert based in Ontario, Canada. Filip and his brother Anton founded Berryline Candles in 2021, offering pet-safe candles handmade with coconut wax. Berryline’s candles are also paraffin-free, paraben-free, sulfate-free, phthalate-free, and cruelty-free. Committed to sustainability, Berryline Candles incorporates eco-friendly practices in production and packaging to minimize environmental impact. Berryline Candles has been featured in Biz X Magazine, The Penthouse Magazine, and the “Hello, Hello World” podcast. Berryline Candles is also a 2023 Community Votes Award winner for Best Candles in Windsor, a 2024 Canadian Choice Award Winner for Best Online Candle Shop and a 2024 Global Recognition Award recipient. Deanna Ranlett Pottery & Ceramics Professional Deanna Ranlett is a Pottery and Ceramics Professional and the Owner of Mudfire Inc. in Decatur, Georgia. With more than 22 years of experience in the ceramics industry and eight years of experience owning a studio, they specialize in glaze formulation, firing ceramic and pottery pieces, general clay projects, and screen printing for ceramics. Deanna holds a BFA in Ceramic Arts and Ceramics from Georgia State University. Douglass Brown Glassblowing Expert Douglass Brown is a Glassblowing Expert based in Half Moon Bay, California. He has over 25 years of experience as a glass artist, and is the owner and operator of 2 glass blowing studios in the San Francisco Bay Area, Half Moon Bay Art Glass and Mare Island Art Glass. Douglass believes in sharing hot glass experiences with anyone who wants to learn about the processes of blowing and sculpting glass. When not teaching, Douglass creates glass art that is a mix of his takes on nature and functional glassware. He has also created the Glass Troubadours, which is a mobile glass blowing studio that hosts parties, events, and visits craft shows. Blythe Nudelman Knitting Expert Blythe Nudelman is a Knitting Expert based in Ponderay, Idaho. She is the owner and operator of Twilight Fibers, a knitting shop and business in Ponderay. Twilight Fibers' products are made of 100% all natural yarns & fibers. They sell a large variety of products for knitting, crochet, embroidery, and other craft hobbies. Corey Reese Photographer, VR Developer & Digital Marketing Expert Corey Reese is a Photographer and VR developer based in Atlanta, Georgia. He has over 18 years of photography experience across various industries, including fashion, fitness, and entertainment. He has educated over 55,500 students about photography through online learning platforms. Corey’s impressive client roster includes Essence Magazine, BET, Bravo, Adidas, Dick’s Sporting Goods, and Emory University. Corey is the creator of “Immersive Exposure,” a virtual reality app designed to revolutionize photography education by providing immersive, interactive learning experiences. Through Immersive Exposure, Corey blends his expertise in photography with cutting-edge VR technologies. He holds a degree in Computer Information Sciences from Catawba College. Ylva Bosemark Jewelry Maker & Entrepreneur Ylva Bosemark is a high school entrepreneur and the founder of White Dune Studio, a small company that specializes in laser cut jewelry. As a young adult herself, she is passionate about inspiring other young adults to turn their passions into business ventures. Shelley Williams Arts & Crafts Expert Shelley Williams is an Arts & Crafts Expert based in Long Beach, California. After a 20-year career as an educator, Shelley brought her love of education to the world of crafting and creating things. Shelley opened CRAFT + LIGHT, a creative arts studio, in 2019. Since then, Shelley has taught over 1000 people to make soap, wood signs, alcohol inks, candlemaking, bath bombs, and more. In addition to being a craft store, CRAFT + LIGHT hosts private parties, family birthday events, open studio events, and other types of craft demonstrations. Shelley partners with city governments to curate creative care packages for at-risk residents and is a partner of the Long Beach Black Health Collaborative funded out of the City of Long Beach. Katarzyna Kapuścińska Crochet Expert Katarzyna Kapuścińska is a Crochet Expert based in Gdynia, Poland. She is an adept craftswoman specializing in textile-related projects, and has worked as a textile pattern designer, crochet pattern designer and handicraft educator. She is the primary editor of crochetpedia.com, an online crochet hub featuring crochet patterns, crochet stitches, video tutorials, and more. Crochetpedia is a place for all makers, where users hone their skills, learn new crochet techniques, and expand their knowledge base. She is also a frequent contributor to YourCrochet.com, an online center for free, easy crochet and knitting patterns for all skill levels. Lindsey Campbell Weaving Instructor Lindsey Campbell is an artist and instructor behind Hello Hydrangea, a modern fiber company specializing in custom home decor and weaving supplies. She has taught over 2500 students how to weave craft through her online video classes. Lindsey's work has been featured in Design*Sponge, Huffington Post, and Vintage Revivals, and she has designed products for JoAnns Crafts, Anthropologie, and Nordstrom. Boris Polissky Professional Photographer Boris Polissky is a Professional Photographer and the Owner of SF City Hall Photo and Boris Polissky Photography based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Boris specializes in wedding, portrait, and family photography focused on bringing out real emotion and connection in his photos. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Social Science from San Jose State University. Boris is known for capturing moments that bring out the uniqueness in all his clients. Heather Gallagher Professional Photojournalist & Photographer Heather Gallagher is a Photojournalist & Photographer based in Austin, Texas. She runs her own photography studio named "Heather Gallagher Photography" which was voted Austin's Best Family Photographer and top 3 Birth Photographers in 2017, 2018, and 2019. Heather specializes in family Photojournalism and has over 15 years of experience documenting individuals, families, and businesses all over the world. Her clients include Delta Airlines, Oracle, Texas Monthly, and her work has been featured in The Washington Post and The Austin American Statesman. She is a member of the International Association of Professional Birth Photographers (IAPBP). Veronica Winters Figurative Artist Veronica Winters is a Figurative Artist who owns an online art gallery and studio in Naples, Florida. With over 20 years of experience, Veronica specializes in surreal figurative oil paintings and colored pencil drawings. In 2022, she won the Award for Distinction at the 30th Annual Colored Pencil Society of America International Exhibition. Veronica is also a published author of two art books: How to Color Like an Artist and The Colored Pencil Manual. She received her BFA in Studio Art at Oklahoma State University and her MFA in Painting at Pennsylvania State University. Veronica also studied classical drawing at the Grand Central Academy of Art and the Art Students League of New York. Summer Ames Slime Expert Summer Ames is a slime expert and the founder of Slime Community based in Charleston County, South Carolina. Summer patented the Slime Baking Kit, which is a nonedible sensory kit made with slime-making ingredients that look exactly like real baking components. Her slime kits are made with premium non-toxic ingredients, including skin-safe fragrance oils, food-grade dye, and non-toxic glue and clay. With a combined 345K followers across her social media channels, Summer has been able to share the joy of slime and build an online community. Daniela Gutierrez-Diaz Clothing Designer Daniela Gutierrez-Diaz is a professional pattern maker and clothing designer at DGpatterns in Vancouver, Canada. With over 5 years of experience, Daniela creates modern and unique silhouettes that are suitable for a busy everyday life. Her blog, On the Cutting Floor, contains sewing tips and PDF sewing patterns for a variety of projects and designs. Cory Ryan Professional Wedding Photographer Cory Ryan is a Professional Wedding Photographer who runs Cory Ryan Photography based in Austin, Texas. She has over 15 years of photography experience and specializes in weddings and events. Her work has been featured in publications such as The Knot, Style Me Pretty, and Junebug Weddings. She received a BA in Media Production and Broadcast Journalism from the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill. Laura M. Johnson Mural Artist Laura M. Johnson is a Mural Artist and the Owner of Laura Margo Murals & Custom Art in St. Paul, Minnesota. She has over five years of experience in the industry and has worked professionally across venture capital, communications, the arts, and beyond. She helps empower small and growing businesses to find their voices, share their stories, and grow their impact. Laura received her Master of Business Administration from the University of Minnesota - Carlson School of Management, and her Bachelors in Journalism and Communication Studies with a minor in Fine Arts from the University of Oregon. Moushami Iyer Henna Artist Moushami Iyer is a Henna Artist and the Owner of Pastel Zenna, an art store in Chicago featuring Moushami's specialty in blending Zentangles and Henna. With over five years of experience, Moushami specializes in Henna tattoos, Henna-inspired art, woodwork, and offers Henna parties. Rebecca Schweiger Professional Artist & Art School Founder Rebecca Schweiger is a Professional Artist, Published Author, and the Founder of The Art Studio NY, New York City's #1-rated art school and global online art studio. Celebrated by TV networks, press, and celebrities including NBC, ABC, E!, Time Out New York, The Kardashians, and Big Bang Theory's Jim Parsons, Rebecca specializes in creating abstract artwork and teaching studio art classes. Her art studios provide 100+ weekly, beginner-friendly drawing and painting art classes to people around the globe. With more than 22 years of art experience, she is the author of Release Your Creativity: Discover Your Inner Artist with 15 Simple Painting Projects, and her artwork has been exhibited in more than 50 museums and galleries around the world. Rebecca holds a BFA in Painting from Boston University's School for the Arts and has participated in acclaimed artist residencies worldwide. Kathy Leader Artist Kathy Leader is an Artist based in Santa Barbara, California. She is the Owner of The Art Process, an innovative in-person and virtual art studio. With more than 36 years of art education experience, she specializes in providing mixed media art workshops for individuals and groups. In addition, she works with businesses and organizations to build morale, encourage creative problem-solving, and find de-stressing tools. Her sessions stress mental wellness through art making. Kathy holds a BFA in Art Education from The University of Cape Town. Andrea Enger Photographer Andrea Enger is a Photographer based in Colorado. Andrea is an Elopement Photographer with nearly a decade of experience, who has photographed hundreds of weddings. She is a premier adventure elopement photographer, focusing on the American Southwest, South America, and Spanish-speaking countries. Her work has been featured in numerous publications, including: ABC News, Reuters, Colorado Wedding Magazine, World’s Best Wedding Photos 2024, Zion Brides, Rangefinder, Wandering Weddings, Here Comes the Guide, The Budget Savvy Bride and Revista Chilena Si Acepto. Reina LeGrand Photographer Reina LeGrand is a Photographer based in Scottsdale, Arizona. She is the owner and Lead Photographer of Bougie Boudoir Studio, a luxury boutique boudoir studio with locations in Castle Rock, CO, and Scottsdale, AZ. Reina primarily shoots in the AZ studio but works out of both studios. At Bougie Boudoir, Reina and her team celebrate the beauty and spirit of women through photography and believe that a Boudoir or Glamour Portrait Shoot is one of the most fun and life-affirming things a woman can do for herself. Their goal is for every one of their clients to feel comfortable and safe. Brad Wells LEGO Content Creator Brad Wells, known online as BRICKLOVER BRAD, is a LEGO content creator and Adult Fan of LEGO (AFOL) based in Toronto, Canada. As a lifelong LEGO enthusiast, Brad has spent over 14 years sharing his love for the brick with his community online. Brad creates content showcasing his vast LEGO collection as well as sharing building tips, reviews, his LEGO travels, vlogs and more. With nearly 150,000 followers across YouTube, TikTok, and Instagram, Brad has amassed over 100 million views, bringing creativity, entertainment, and LEGO inspiration to fans around the world. He received a BComm in Marketing Management with a minor in Law from Toronto Metropolitan University. Nissa-Lynn Parson Interior Decorator and Brand Influencer Nissa-Lynn Parson is an Interior Decorator and Brand Influencer based in Texas. With a longstanding passion for decorating, she started her own interior decorating business in 2010, Nissa-Lynn Interiors. She offers interior decorating and design, home staging, and e-design. Nissa-Lynn later branched out in 2015 and pursued home decor influencing on social media. She has had the opportunity to attend product launch events, participate in design panels, and work with PR firms and companies like Hobby Lobby, Amazon, Floor & Decor, and Macy’s. Her content has been published in several national magazines including The Cottage Journal, and has been featured on web and social media sites like Better Homes and Gardens Magazine, Pottery Barn, Target, and many more. Nissa-Lynn specializes in creating elegant and sophisticated spaces with a focus on timeless style and attention to detail. She loves decorating for holidays and sharing her favorite home decor items, entertaining pieces, and decorating tips to inspire others to love the space they’re in! She received an AA degree in Fine Art from BYU-Idaho in 1997 and a BA degree in Marketing Communications and minor Visual Arts from Brigham Young University in 1999. Martin Bentsen Acting Coach & Headshot Photographer Martin Bentsen is a New York City-based Acting Coach and Headshot Photographer. Focusing on developing an actor's ability to book more work, Martin advises clients on professional headshots, demo reels, biographies, websites, and how to connect with talent agents. He has taught actor marketing strategies at New York University, The Actor's Green Room, and Actor's Connection. He has taken over 6,000 headshots for City Headshots and teaches actors via classes, emails, and one-on-one consultations. Martin holds a BFA in Film and Television from New York University. Mike Stramiello Leatherworker Mike Stramiello is a Leatherworker based in Wilmington, North Carolina. He founded Beast Belts and Knives, a Leather Products business in 2020. He initially got involved in the field when he started blacksmithing knives. He couldn’t find the kinds of leather sheaths he wanted for his knives in his area, so he started leather smithing. After years of honing his craft, he started selling his custom-made wares and consistently has a wait list for his products. In addition to the items that are regularly available on his website, Mike builds one-off creations for his website and holds product auctions on his Instagram page. Beast Belts and Knives custom belts, rugs, bags, weapon sheaths and holsters, and other special order items. Mike takes pride in his handmade luxury custom leather work and bladesmithing creations. Emily Zahniser Sewist and Upcycling Expert Emily Zahniser is a Sewist based in the Pacific Northwest. She designs and sews garments from vintage and antique textiles. Passionate about sustainability, Emily gives new life to discarded and forgotten fabrics, including upcycling home textiles like bedding and table linens, or deadstock bulk fabrics. Through her fashion brand, Saint Clairs Scissors, she carefully sources, cleans, and mends vintage fabrics, crafting one-of-a-kind pieces that blend nostalgia with a modern, timeless twist. She received a BA in Music from University of Washington and attended a Graduate program at Columbia University’s Manhattan School of Music. Coco Sato Origamist and Contemporary Artist Coco Sato is an Origamist and Contemporary Artist based in Brighton, UK. She is an award-winning contemporary artist specializing in origami and geometric sculptures. With a multidisciplinary practice encompassing sculpture, performance, psychology, and geometry, she explores shifting perspectives through the intricate art of origami. Coco’s work bridges cultures by combining traditional Japanese aesthetics with contemporary concepts, inviting audiences to reconsider their relationship with the world. Pilar Zuniga Floral Designer & Owner, Gorgeous and Green Pilar Zuniga is a Floral Designer and the Owner of Gorgeous and Green, a floral design studio and Certified Green Business based in Oakland, California. Pilar has over ten years of experience in floral design. With a focus on being earth-friendly and supporting local growers, Gorgeous and Green has been featured in Energy Upgrade California, Molly My, Apartment Therapy, 100 Layer Cake, Design Sponge, and Trendy Bride. Her studio provides floral arrangements and gift basket, event and wedding design, and she teaches workshops on flower design and sustainability in her industry. Pilar received a BA in Anthropology from the University of California, Berkeley in 2001. Adam Kealing Professional Photographer Adam Kealing is a Professional Photographer based in Austin, Texas. He specializes in general wedding, destination wedding, and engagement photoshoots. Adam has over 11 years of photography experience. His work has been featured in Green Wedding Shoes, Style Me Pretty, Once Wed, and Snippet Ink. His work has won numerous awards with Fearless Photographers and Masters of Wedding Photography. Dariusz Horvath-Krol Professional Ballroom Dancer & Dance Instructor Dariusz Horvath-Krol is a Professional Ballroom Dancer and Dance Instructor based in New York. With more than 20 years of dance experience, he specializes in ballroom dancing, hip-hop, funk, and ballet. He has also spent the last seven years performing and working with Dancing With The Stars professionals. Dariusz has received full bronze, full silver, and gold awards from The Dance Vision International Dance Association. Peggy Carlton Leather Expert Peggy Carlton is a Leather Expert based in Tacoma, WA. In 2005, she founded PeggySueAlso Leather, a cutting edge leather seller and one of the largest sellers on Etsy. PeggySueAlso Leather buys from some of the largest and best tanneries in the world, and were the first to offer more niche sizes to support a wider range of clients from shoe makers, to earring makers, to bag makers, and more. PeggySueAlso Leather carries around 165,000 sq ft of leather in stock, with unique offerings like digitally printed leather and custom orders. Anna Knight Nature-Inspired Arts and Crafts Expert Anna Knight is a crafting expert and content creator based in Scotland, UK. As the founder of the creative blog, Earth and Sky Play, Anna’s crafting journey began while homeschooling her children, where she discovered how creative play could make learning more engaging, accessible, and joyful. She shares upcycled crafts, nature-inspired designs, recycled art, and simple DIY projects. She offers a variety of templates and printable designs on her Etsy shop, in addition to sharing gift guides, organic and upcycled product recommendations, and more. In 2020, she launched her social media marketing company Ark Socials and has since supported many small business owners and creators in excelling on social platforms, growing engagement, and securing deals. Karen De Jager Professional Photographer Karen De Jager is a Professional Photographer and the Owner of Spectrum Photography LLC, operating in the broader East Bay area based in Pleasant Hill, California. Karen is a published and award-winning photographer who offers both in-studio, outdoor, and on-location sessions specializing in capturing a wide variety of special moments and events in a natural, photojournalistic style. Her ability to look at every photoshoot as an adventure and general passion for delivering excellent customer service led to Spectrum Photography’s recognition by Expertise.com as the “Best Wedding Photographers in Vallejo” in both 2018 and 2020. Richard Engelbrecht Professional Photographer Richard Engelbrecht was a Professional Photographer and the Owner-Operator of Mr.E Photography of Conesus, New York. He specialized in nature photography of the Finger Lakes, Genesee Valley, and Southern-tier regions of New York State. Claire Wentzel Award-Winning Artist and Strategic Creative Consultant Claire Wentzel is an award-winning Artist and Strategic Creative Consultant. Her business, Red Rose Studios, is based in Las Vegas, Nevada, where she also serves on the Clark County Public Art Committee. With over 20 years of experience, she specializes in mixed media participatory art, brand messaging, and building organizational culture. She earned her BA in Fine Art with Distinction from the University of Colorado-Boulder and completed a painting residency at the International School of Painting, Drawing, and Sculpture. Her chalk mural work has been featured in EdHat and I Madonnari Italian Street Painting Festival advertising. Bicycle Glass Glassblowing Experts Bicycle Glass Co. was founded in 2016 by David Royce and Michael Boyd, two professional glass experts. Bicycle Glass is primarily a lighting company, committed to quality, sustainability, and affordability. All Bicycle Glass products are made of high-quality, recycled glass and are hand-blown by a dedicated team of artisans. The studio is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by conserving energy in all of its production. Using renewable wind energy to offset all electricity usage, the studio is actively working toward the goal of carbon neutrality. Bicycle Glass believes that high-quality, handmade glass products should be within reach for everyone. Sarah C. Cosplayer Sarah C. is a cosplayer based in Philadelphia. Sarah went to her first convention at just 4 years old and seriously started cosplaying over 10 years ago. Sarah is skilled in sewing, wig styling, crafting with foam, working with textiles, and more. She pulls inspiration from anime, comics, and TV shows, and is best known for her Supergirl, anime, and gender-swapped cosplays. Sarah shares her creative process on her social media channels where she is known as @sarahisloading. One of her favorite things about cosplaying is the community it creates. She has been featured in various media publications for her cosplays, including MSN and Screen Rant. Amy Sheree Slime Expert Amy Sheree is a Slime Expert based in Destin, Florida. She is the founder of Amma Slimes, an online slime retailer selling her handcrafted slime products. She started Amma Slimes in 2022, after spending months developing her recipes and products. Prior to running her business, she had a career as a food stylist and recipe developer, which informed her approach to perfecting her products and creating content. She sells a variety of slime types and textures, including thick and glossy, snow fizz, silica sand, her proprietary sizzly butter slime, and more. Many of her slime recipes are modeled after popular desserts and treats, like orange sherbet, apple crisp, and more. Marissa Fidler Seasonal Decor Expert Marissa Lynn Fidler is a home decor and seasonal decor expert based in Charlotte, North Carolina. She has a genuine passion for making a house a home and making holidays special for her family. She built her current home, and fell in love with designing, decorating, and styling every square inch of it (especially for the holidays). In addition to being a busy mom of four, she is a home decor content creator. Her lively content focuses on festive and colorful home and holiday decor and finds, along with seasonal inspo and ideas. Her Instagram page, @fidlinaroundhome, has over 73K followers, and she has a community of over 48K followers on her Facebook page. Her home and her work were selected for a feature in Better Homes and Gardens’ Christmas Issue, in stores October 2025. She’s worked with a multitude of brands and retailers, including Ballard Designs, Balsam Hill, Walmart, Sam’s Club, Mackenzie-Child’s, Michael’s, Kroger, Lowe’s Home Improvement, Packed Party, Mud Pie, Ruggable, and more! She’s been featured in HGTV Magazine, Cottages & Bungalows, Southern Lady, and Better Homes and Gardens. Liz Park Slime Expert Liz Park is a Slime Expert. She owns and operates Slimey Pallets, an independent online marketplace that sells slime, slime-making supplies, fidget toys, and other fun knick knacks for all ages. They are known for their signature SuperClear slime, glitter slimes, water slimes, and slimes that resemble a variety of popular foods, including mochi, fried eggs, and sushi. Slimey Pallets has built an online community of slime enthusiasts that includes 100K Instagram followers and 71K TikTok followers. Vlad Horol Professional Photographer Vlad Horol is a Professional Photographer and the Co-Founder of Yofi Photography, his portrait photography studio based in Chicago, Illinois. He and his wife Rachel specialize in capturing maternity, newborn, and family photos. He has been practicing photography full-time for over five years. His work has been featured in VoyageChicago and Hello Dear Photographer. Coryn Kiefer Helmken Professional Photographer Coryn Kiefer Helmken is a Professional Photographer and the Owner of Coryn Kiefer Photography in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Coryn specializes in fine art portrait and wedding photography. She holds a BA in English and Visual Arts from Union College. Coryn’s photography style is timeless, romantic, and clean. Ahzahdeh Neshat Party Decorating Specialist Ahzahdeh Neshat is a Party Decorating Specialist and the Owner of Confetti & Sprinkles LLC based in Los Angeles, California. With over three years of experience, she specializes in creating extravagant balloon decor for parties and events. Ahzahdeh has created balloon decor for businesses such as MediaLab and Insomnia Cookies. Brynne Zaniboni Professional Photographer Brynne Zaniboni is a Professional Photographer based in Los Angeles, California. With nearly 10 years of photography experience, Brynne is a Portrait, Fashion, and Music Photographer. Brynne is also the founder of Backroom Boudoir Photography, offering a range of boudoir shoots from birthday, to bridal, to maternity. She believes in the power of boudoir to celebrate every body and foster self-love and confidence. She has a Bachelor of Arts from California State University, Northridge. Jessica McKnight Photographer Jessica McKnight is a Photographer & Business Coach based in Southwest, Florida. She first fell in love with photography at the age of 12 and has maintained that passion ever since. Her studio is currently in downtown Punta Gorda, but she also often travels for her work. Her award-winning technique has earned her "Best of the Best" twice from the Tampa Bay Times. Her work has been featured in countless magazines & publications. Her studio offers boudoir, fashion, headshot/branding, commercial, event, senior portrait, family, children, and engagement/wedding sessions. Jessica McKnight also runs Brilliance Key, a photography coaching & mentoring business that provides one-on-one mentoring, 8-week mastermind groups, workshops, and photography retreats around the globe featuring some of the biggest names in the industry. Jun Draper Candle Maker & Origami Artist Jun Draper is a candle maker, mold maker, and origami artist based in New York. She is the founder and owner of her own business, The Handmade Charm & Sweet Sting Apiaries. With 10 years of experience, Jun specializes in making candles with beeswax from her family's hives. She also crafts silicone molds that can be used for candles, soaps, resin, and more. She offers a wide variety of options on Etsy and her personal Shopify store, including taper molds, pillar molds, tealight molds, figure molds, and more. Her candles are made with 100% pure fresh capping wax and her molds are platinum-cured silicone. Her shop also offers candle-making accessories and bee products like honey, beeswax, and propolis. Jun received her BA in Education from Chongqing University of Arts & Sciences. Arklight Blues and Sea Cucumber Digital Manga Artist and Manga Expert Arklight Blues and Seacucumber Salad, also known as Ark Nemesis and Soap, are manga experts. Arklight Blues is a digital manga artist who began by emulating Hirohiko Araki’s JoJo style and later started working on an original manga. They are currently collaborating on the manga "Rauch". It was originally released on Webtoon and Cubari in 2023 and quickly reached the most popular spot of April 2023 on Shueisha’s MANGA Plus Creators section. The manga is ongoing, having completed its first volume in 2024 with the second one well underway. Known as Arklight Blues on social media, she created a community of over 110k followers and can be found on Instagram @arklight_blues and X (formerly known as Twitter) @ArkNemesis5. Bridgette Borzillo Dance Instructor & Artistic Director Bridgette Borzillo is an Artistic Director, Dance Instructor, and the Owner of CaZo Dance Theatre based in Mesa, Arizona. With more than 14 years of dance choreography and performance experience, she specializes in teaching ballroom dance, modern and contemporary dance, and aerial fitness. Through her kinesthetic dance company, Bridgette aims to tell impactful stories through a variety of dance styles. She holds a BFA in Dance Choreography from Arizona State University. Denise Porcaro Tupper Floral Design Expert Denise Porcaro Tupper is a Floral Design Expert, as well as the Founder & Owner of Flower Girl NYC. With over 20 years of experience in the industry, she specializes in curating lush, whimsical bouquets, large dramatic installations, and everything in between. Denise has worked with notable clientele including Vogue, Chanel, Proenza Schouler, and Marc Jacobs, and has also had numerous collaborations with companies such as Liberty of London, Gap, and Coach. Kari Bjorn Photographer Kari Bjorn is a Professional Photographer based in West Hartford, Connecticut. With nearly 10 years in the industry, Kari is a specialist in Film and Digital Wedding Photography. He has a wide array of photography interests and experiences. Kari is originally from Iceland and came to the US a decade ago to pursue photography at the Parsons School of Design in New York City. His previous editorial and commercial clients include Vanity Fair, InStyle, UN Women, The French-American Foundation, Plug & Play, KRANTZ + KRANTZ, and NPR. Kari has exhibited his work at the Aperture Gallery in New York City, the Eastern State Penitentiary Museum in Philadelphia, and Fotografiska in Stockholm, Sweden. He also had a solo exhibition at I Kring 03 in Reykjavik, Iceland in 2019. Katherine Rinewalt Calligrapher Katherine Rinewalt is a Calligrapher based in Orlando, Florida. Katherine owns Rosebud Calligraphy and has over 6 years of experience. Rosebud Calligraphy is a calligraphy and stationery design studio offering invitations, handwritten pieces, and signage for weddings and special events. Katherine is passionate about helping others elevate their weddings and events with her personalized touch. Kia Paylor Soapmaker Kia Paylor is a Soapmaker based in Central Virginia. She owns and operates Petals Bath Boutique, a soap and body care business. Kia has been making cold-process and hot-process soaps for over 15 years. In addition to running her business, she shares soapmaking techniques on social media. Her YouTube channel has over 24K subscribers. She posts tutorials on Petals Bath Boutique’s Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube accounts. Kia’s soaps are formulated using high-quality vegetable oils, exotic butters, clays, herbal infusions, and botanicals. They are scented using premium fragrance and essential oils. Kia’s unique designs and superior craftmanship have gained both her business and social media accounts dedicated fans. Shellisa Ruvalcaba Slime Expert Shellisa Ruvalcaba is a slime expert based in Apple Valley, California. She is the owner and operator of Duncan’s Slime, a slime small business. She has over 6 years of experience making and selling slime. She sells a variety of slime products, including icee slimes, cloud slimes, crunchy slimes, and clear slimes. She got inspired to start her slime business after discovering the ASMR side of playing with slime. She has built an online community of slime enthusiasts with over 44K followers on Instagram, where she posts product videos and other slime content. Steven Geary Cosplayer Steven Geary is a Cosplayer based in Aurora, Colorado. He creates content on multiple platforms with his online cosplayer handle, Omega Shrine. He has over 20K followers on Instagram, and also creates tutorials on cosplay techniques and costuming on YouTube. Additionally, he sells cosplay materials on an online Etsy shop. He has over 8 years of experience with cosplay and began his journey with the craft when he went to his first anime convention. From that moment on, he was hooked. His first cosplay was a classic spandex Batman suit. From there, he researched and developed his skills until he felt ready to attempt larger builds with EVA foam. In 2016, he built his first large-scale cosplay, The Predator. Sarah Symonds DIY Specialist Sarah Symonds is a DIY Specialist, Blogger, and the Owner of The Grace In My Space Blog, a home decor, interior design, and DIY blog. With over five years of experience in DIY projects, she specializes in affordable home design focused on creativity and comfort. Sarah has been featured in numerous publications such as Better Homes and Gardens, Country Living Magazine, and American Farmhouse Style Magazine. She is also the author of Designing a Life: From House to Haven. Sarah holds an MS in Business Management from Cornerstone University. Naiquan Midyett Cosplayer Naiquan Midyett is a cosplayer and social media influencer based in New York City. Best known for his cosplay of the friendly neighborhood Spider-Man, Naiquan draws inspiration from comics, anime, and more. Other characters he has cosplayed include Static Shock, Black Panther, War Machine, and the Grinch. Naiquan shares his cosplay on his social media channels where he is known as @cosplaynay and has a combined 50k followers across Instagram and YouTube. Angelina Ly Slime Expert Angelina Ly is a slime expert, entrepreneur, and the founder of Fireflyslime based in Renton, WA. At just 14 years old, Angelina launched her slime startup and quickly joined the top 1% of all Shopify businesses that launched in the same week. Now over 8 years later, she has accumulated a combined over 520k followers across her social media channels to build a community around the world who love slime. Angelina has attended conventions across the U.S. to showcase and sell her products, was spotlighted by Scholastic Magazine as a Slime CEO, and was featured on a segment of Studio13 Live on Fox. She was also a special guest on the first slime competition show series, Slime Wars, and has been a guest speaker on several e-commerce podcasts, including Winfluence, Winning with Shopify, and Shopify Masters. Angelina has a Bachelors in Business Administration from the University of Washington Bothell School of Business. Jeff Friesen LEGO Artist Jeff Friesen is a LEGO Artist, author, and photographer based in Canada. Jeff has published 6 books, including The LEGO Engineer and LEGO Micro Cities. Jeff’s LEGO art won Creation of the Year from The Brothers Brick, and his LEGO Micro Cities have been featured on The LEGO Group’s official channels. His LEGO recreations of Banksy’s artwork went viral and were featured on Banksy’s social media channels in 2014. His photography has also been featured in dozens of magazines, exhibited around the world, and earned him the Award of Excellence from Communication Arts. Gregory Patrick Knitting Specialist Gregory Patrick is a knitter who runs the popular blog Madman Knitting. He is also the author of the book "Mad Man Knitting or The Waiter and the Fly". He has been knitting and writing about knitting for over 10 years. Annie Tao Professional Photographer Annie Tao is an award-winning Professional Lifestyle and Commercial Photographer and the Owner of Annie Tao Photography based in the San Francisco Bay Area. While some of her commercial clients include Starbucks, PayPal, Rice University, and United Airlines, Annie is also passionate about capturing genuine emotions and real moments in people’s lives. She has been recognized as Kodak’s Featured Photographer and has had work featured in The Wall Street Journal, Brides Magazine, and Glamour & Grace. Vanessa Stahl Jewelry Designer & Cake Artist Vanessa Stahl is a jewelry designer and cake artist based in the NY/NJ tristate area. As the founder of Generation Next Jewelry, a star seller on Etsy, she has built a thriving brand known for its one-of-a-kind, handcrafted jewelry. Her designs—ranging from statement necklaces and beaded bracelets to silk ribbon wraps, earrings, and feather hair accessories—blend a variety of materials, including semi-precious stones, metal and glass beads, cords, and feathers. Through her @gennextjewelry social media presence on Instagram, Pinterest, and Facebook, she has cultivated a dedicated community of customers and artisans, amassing over 12K followers. In addition to her jewelry business, Vanessa is a highly skilled cake artist with over 15 years of experience in the baking industry. As the lead cake artist at her current bakery, she specializes in custom cakes, cookies, cupcakes, and desserts. Her expertise has earned her a loyal following of over 62K on Instagram at @gennextcakes, where she shares creative designs, pro tips, and industry insights. She graduated from The French Culinary Institute’s Classic French Pastry Program in New York City in 2009. For Vanessa, art is more than a profession; it’s a way of life. Whether she’s handcrafting jewelry, sculpting cakes, or sharing creative insights, she remains dedicated to inspiring others through her work. Antoine de Villiers Artist Antoine de Villiers is an Artist and the Founder of Antoine Art Studio LLC based in Savannah, GA. Antoine has over 25 years of experience, specializing in oil painting, graphite & charcoal drawing. She has had over 70 exhibitions around the globe and her work has received numerous awards including Best Figurative Artist by The Richmond Art Museum, Indiana (USA), Best Solo Artist by Eric Smith at the New York Art Expo, and first place in Figurative Painting by Pamela Jean Tinnen from Artrepreneur. She earned her Web Design Diploma from Boston Business College and studied Indian Art, Visual Art, and Modern Art at the University of Oxford, Department of Continuing Education. Kieren Dutcher Professional Artist Kieren Dutcher is a Professional Artist and a Teaching Artist at the NIAD Art Center in Richmond, California, and other venues around the Bay Area. With 30 years of experience, she specializes in colorful illustrations inspired by folk art, nature, and color. Kieren earned her Master of Education in Art Education from San Francisco State University and her BFA from the California College of the Arts. Her work has been published by St. Martin's Press, Uppercase Magazine, Highlights Magazine, in hospitals, and on TV. Her picture book Chinese and English Nursery Rhymes: Share and Sing in Two Languages (2010) won best book of the year from the Chinese American Library Association. Natalie Hanrion Costume Designer Natalie Hanrion is a Costume Designer based in Fredericksburg, Virginia. She is the owner of Archaic Costumes and Designs, LLC. Natalie characterizes her approach to costuming as “fantasy and whimsical meets historical”. She loves making historically-inspired costumes and approaches her work with an appreciation for classical training and historical accuracy while valuing the freedom to create what comes to mind. Natalie grew up sewing and crafting, which gave her invaluable insight into materials and adhesives. In addition to modeling her own creations, she has created an online marketplace for her costumes on Etsy and has also built a community of costume enthusiasts on social media where she enjoys sharing videos about her methods and processes. She also takes commissions to create custom pieces. Sellenee Sich Crochet & Knitting Expert Sellenee Sich is a Crochet & Knitting Expert based in Gillette, Wyoming. She is the owner of Swanky Mountain, a small business that sells yarn and a variety of both knitting and crochet materials. They also offer classes and events for knitting and craft enthusiasts. Through their busy calendar of activities and tutorials, Swanky Mountain has built a thriving community of makers. Sellenee has been working with yarn for over a decade, and love to help people develop their crafting and fiber skills. Sparkle Cosplayer Sparkle is a Cosplayer and content creator based in New Jersey. She has been cosplaying for several years. Notable cosplays of hers include characters from Arcane, Avatar: The Last Airbender, Delicious in Dungeon, Fairly OddParents, and more. She has over 286K followers on TikTok, 100K subscribers on YouTube, and 34K followers on Instagram. Through her cosplay work, Sparkle seeks to welcome and inspire Black youth in the cosplay community, and to make cosplay spaces more inclusive. Amy Collins Sewing Expert Amy Collins is a sewing expert and pattern maker based in Central Texas. Through her online blog Amy Nicole Studio, she showcases her process as a seamstress, shares tutorials to help others improve their skills, and provides sewing patterns and printables for others to recreate. Amy is ethically and sustainably minded when it comes to her sewing projects and she is enthusiastic about vintage clothing, refashions, and upcycles. In addition to personal projects, she also offers tailoring and alterations to clients and does other freelance work in her studio. Amy has an associate's degree in Fashion Design from the Fashion Institute of Technology and a BA in Theatre from the University of Houston. Nevenka Morozin Abstract Artist Nevenka Morozin is an Abstract Artist based in California. She is an expert painter and primarily works in acrylics. She specializes in large, abstract works of color and her pieces depict various life experiences inspired by her own personal immigration journey seeking Home. Joey Wallace Photographer Joey Wallace is a Professional Photographer based in Atlanta, Georgia. Joey is the Creative Director and Lead Wedding Photographer at Joey Wallace Photography, providing photography and videography services. With over 10 years of experience, Joey has been honored as one of Atlanta’s Best Photographers for the past 5 years and has documented hundreds of weddings. Joey Wallace Photography has also been featured and recognized by publications including The Knot, WeddingWire, Brides Atlanta, and Featured on Zola. Hoffelt & Hooper Embroidery Experts Hoffelt & Hooper is a small family-owned and operated business that was founded in 2016. The Hoffelt & Hooper team creates beautiful, personalized pieces of art including embroidery and DIY kits. David Zhang Professional Photographer David Zhang is a Professional Wedding Photographer and the Co-Owner of A Tale Ahead based in the San Francisco Bay Area. He works with his wife Annie to capture their clients’ happiest memories in life, from surprise proposals to wedding days and beyond. David and Annie are experts at capturing moments and emotions naturally and candidly, beautifully and artistically. Jenna Ingalls Sewing Expert Jenna Ingalls is a Sewing Expert based in Oakland, CA. Known as The Lady Who Lunches online, Jenna shares her handmade knitted and sewn garment projects, along with tutorials and patterns. She is passionate about making her own clothing, which allows her to reduce her carbon footprint and ensure natural fibers are being used. Some recent projects include a hand-sewn vented tunic, crew trousers, and a patterned knitted sweater. Erin Toews Crochet Expert Erin Toews is a Crochet Expert based in Knoxville, Tennessee. She is the owner and creator of Juniper and Oakes, an online Crochet marketplace and learner’s resource website. Juniper and Oakes offers e-courses, tutorials on stitch types, and other educational resources. Erin is a crochet pattern designer, offering patterns for baby blankets, wall hangings, pillows, baskets, and other charming gifts. Erin designs pieces that bring comfort and invite conversation. It’s her desire that her crochet patterns add to the personality and peace in people’s home. She hosts crochet-alongs with her crochet community where the adventurous crocheter can learn new stitches and techniques. Juniper and Oakes represents Erin’s multi-faceted approach to the world of crochet. Matt Koba LEGO Content Creator Matt Koba is a LEGO Content Creator based in Toms River, New Jersey. He has been creating and sharing video content for Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube since 2021 as Matticus Bricks, which has recently been designated as a Recognized LEGO® Fan Media (RLFM). As an ambassador between his unique community and The LEGO® Group, Matticus Bricks consistently communicates with a following of over 300,000 dedicated LEGO® fans across several social media platforms. Through his content, Matt strives to create an inclusive environment in which his followers feel inspired and motivated to discover or reconnect with a love of building with LEGO® bricks. He connects with followers and networks with other professional content creators in person by attending Recognized AFOL (Adult Fan of LEGO®) Networking Events, including major conventions. As Matticus Bricks, he has collaborated with multiple companies, including eBay, Mercari, and The LEGO® Group. He received a Master of Education in School Counseling and Guidance Services from Georgian Court University and earned his BA in English Language and Literature from Kean University. Pete Sveen DIY Craftsman Pete Sveen is a DIY enthusiast based in Montana. He creates and shares inspiring video tutorials on building projects, from furniture construction to metalworking. His YouTube channel, DIY Pete, has over 240,000 subscribers. Ysabella Delgado & Quinn Jones Jewelry Makers and Co-Founders of KIKAY Ysabella Delgado & Quinn Jones are co-founders of the jewelry brand KIKAY based in Altadena, CA. KIKAY was founded in 2019, and prioritizes creating easy-to-wear, affordable, and unique earrings that are just as bold as their customers! They offer a wide variety of products, including necklaces, earrings, ear cuffs, charms, chains, jewelry storage, and more. Ysabella is the creative who manages design, production, social media, and marketing, while Quinn manages coding, finances, customer service, fulfillment, and production - and they both work together to hand make each of the pieces. They pride themselves on creating jewelry that is accessible, offering clip-on or nickel-free options, and sustainable, with a portion of their acrylic material being upcycled. Michelle Plucinsky Glassblowing Expert Michelle Plucinsky is a Glassblowing Expert based in Dearborn, Michigan. Michelle is the Co-Owner and Creative Director of Glass Academy, an educational facility showcasing glass experiences, hands-on classes, and seasonal events. Glass Academy’s facility functions as an art studio for the founding partners, where large-scale commissioned projects are fabricated and handcrafted glass objects are sold. The Glass Academy aims to expand consumer awareness of how handcrafted glass can be utilized as both functional and decorative elements in modern applications. Michelle has an extensive background in the glass arts, has taught at the professional level at the Corning Museum of Glass, traveled to work abroad in Italy, and ran a production studio within Dearborn’s Henry Ford Museum. She attended Alfred University. Mona Schmitt DIY Craft Expert Mona Schmitt is a DIY craft expert who tackles furniture makeovers, home decor, jewelry, crafts, & sewing. Her YouTube channel, CraftKlatch, has over 100,000 subscribers. Megan Connolly Sewing Specialist Megan Connolly is a Sewing Specialist with over 40 years of sewing experience. She specializes in creating crafts and clothing garments such as face masks, scarves, and dresses. Using over 18 years of experience in software technology, Megan has served as the Director of Technology and Advisor to Robotics Teams at The Haverford School in Haverford, Pennsylvania. She has a BS in Mathematics from Temple University. Poppie Rodriguez Owner, Sashay Floral Poppie Rodriguez is the owner and founder of Sashay Floral in California, where she currently works as a florist. Rodriguez has over 25 years of experience in the floral industry. Jocy Paixão Fortes DIY Seamstress Jocy Paixão Fortes is a DIY Seamstress and fashion enthusiast based in the Netherlands. Her DIY and travel themed YouTube Channel, joycy, has more than 100,000 subscribers. Tamara Kelly Crochet Designer Tamara Kelly is a crochet designer and writer of Moogly, a crochet and knitting blog. She has over 14 years of experience with crochet and knitting projects. She was awarded a Top Blogger of 2018 by AllFreeCrochet and FaveCrafts. She was also awarded the Best Top Pattern of 2018 by I Like Crochet, a prominent crocheting magazine. Nancy Wynn Knitting Instructor Nancy Wynn is a lifelong knitter based in Minnesota. She is a member of the Minnesota Knitters Guild and the Knitting Guild Association. Her Youtube channel, Wynn Knit, has over 10,000 subscribers. Stuart Morgan Professional Photographer Stuart Morgan is a Professional and Freelance Photographer for Airbnb in California. He graduated from the Brooks Institute of Photography with a degree in Commercial Photography in 2011. Samuel Crossley Filmmaker & Photographer Samuel Crossley is a Filmmaker and Photographer based in Boulder, Colorado. With over 10 years of media experience, Samuel's commercial and editorial work has been featured in National Geographic, Google, Red Bull Media House, The North Face, REI, Reel Rock, and ABC News, among others. He worked as a cinematographer on the Academy Award winning documentary, Free Solo Zimou Tan Professional Portrait Artist Zimou Tan is a Professional Portrait Artist based in Pennsylvania. With over two decades of experience, Zimou specializes in portraiture and aims to capture the soul, gestures, expressions, personalities, and moods of all his subjects. He graduated from the Academy of Art College in San Francisco in 2001 with degrees in both Fine Arts and Traditional Illustration. Zimou then served as a Professor of Fine Arts at the Academy of Art College until he started his portrait business. Zimou has been featured on the front page of the Marin Independent Journal in 2013 and in “Strokes of Genius 4 – The Best of Drawing”, a book by Rachel Rubin Wolf, in 2012. He was also chosen as one of 50 artists who impacted China in 2009. Zimou’s paintings have been exhibited in the New York Portrait Society Gallery in New York City, the American Artists Professional League in New York City, the de Young Museum in San Francisco, the Asia Society of Arts of America in San Francisco, and the Pasadena Fine Art Museum in Pasadena. Tanner Rowley Woodworker and Small Business Owner Tanner Rowley is a Woodworker and Small Business Owner. Katharina Tarta Paper Crafting Expert Katharina Tarta is a paper crafting expert based in Munich, Germany. After developing a lifelong passion for crafting, Katharina launched her crafting social media pages and paper crafting business in 2022. Katharina has built an engaged community of crafting enthusiasts online, where she regularly shares tutorials on popular paper crafts, showcases elaborate cards and other paper arts, and shares crafting recommendations for her audience via curated storefronts. Her Instagram page, katharina_tarta_crafts, has 500K followers on Instagram. She received a Master's degree in Biochemistry. NV Gay LGBTQ+ Culture Expert NV Gay is a LGBTQ+ Culture Expert. Legal Clinton M. Sandvick, JD, PhD Lawyer Clinton M. Sandvick worked as a civil litigator in California for over 7 years. He received his JD from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1998 and his PhD in American History from the University of Oregon in 2013. Jennifer Mueller, JD wikiHow Content Creator Jennifer Mueller is a wikiHow Content Creator. She specializes in reviewing, fact-checking, and evaluating wikiHow's content to ensure thoroughness and accuracy. Jennifer holds a JD from Indiana University Maurer School of Law in 2006. Lahaina Araneta, JD Attorney at Law Lahaina Araneta, Esq. is an Immigration Attorney based in Los Angeles, California. She has been practicing law since 2012 and has worked at LMG Law since 2014, where she specializes in employment and family-based immigration. She also served as Director of Legal Operations for Ashoori Law from 2019 to 2023, where she was the full-time manager of employment business immigration cases. Prior to her work at LMG, she served as a Staff Attorney for The Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, and worked as a Senior Associate for two different immigration law groups. She received her JD from Loyola Law School and earned a Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science from Loyola Marymount University. In law school, she participated in the immigrant justice practicum and served as a volunteer with several nonprofit agencies. Hovanes Margarian Attorney Hovanes Margarian is the Founder and the Lead Attorney at The Margarian Law Firm, a boutique automotive litigation law firm in Los Angeles, California. Hovanes specializes in automobile dealer fraud, automobile defects (aka Lemon Law), and consumer class action cases. He holds a BS in Biology from the University of Southern California (USC). Hovanes obtained his Juris Doctor degree from the USC Gould School of Law, where he concentrated his studies in business and corporate law, real estate law, property law, and California civil procedure. Concurrently with attending law school, Hovanes founded a nationwide automobile sales and leasing brokerage which gave him insights into the automotive industry. Hovanes Margarian legal achievements include successful recoveries against almost all automobile manufacturers, major dealerships, and other corporate giants. Miatrai Brown, Esq. Immigration Attorney Miatrai Brown is an Immigration Lawyer based in Washington D.C. With over 10 years of academic and professional experience, her areas of focus include employment-based nonimmigrant and immigrant visas, investment-based immigration, family-based immigration, risk management assessment, and regulatory compliance. She began her legal career exclusively practicing immigration and nationality law as external immigration counsel to large U.S. corporations and fast-moving start-ups. After six years at top immigration firms, she opened her own practice, Direct U.S. Immigration. This move was motivated by her desire to provide more access to a high level of immigration support to clients worldwide. As a thoughtful and strategic advisor on immigration and related matters, Direct U.S. Immigration earned an impressive honor as Immigration Law Firm of the Year 2023 – Washington DC. Srabone Monir, JD Attorney at Law Srabone Monir, Esq., is an Attorney based in New York. She received her JD from the St. John's University School of Law in 2013, and has used her legal training in positions for 32BJ SEIU, the New York Legal Assistance Group, and Disability Rights New York. She is currently a Principal Law Clerk with the New York State Supreme Court.  She is also a VA Accredited Attorney as of 2015 and is licensed to practice law in New Jersey and in New York. Gregory Cade, JD Environmental & Occupational Law Attorney Gregory Cade is an Environmental and Occupational Law Attorney. With over 25 years of experience, he has extensive knowledge in injuries resulting from toxic substance exposure like pesticides. He is a member of numerous professional organizations, including The American Bar Association, The National Association of Environmental Professionals, and The American Association for Justice. Gregory graduated with a BS in Natural Science and Mathematics with an emphasis in Chemistry and Biology and an MPH in Occupational Health, Safety, and Industrial Hygiene from The University of Alabama at Birmingham. He also holds a JD from Miles School of Law. Carl Clatterbuck Private Investigator Carl Clatterbuck is a private investigator based in Michigan. With nearly 40 years in the industry, Carl is known for providing premier private detective services for law firms, businesses, corporations, and individuals throughout the US and around the world. The Carl H. Clatterbuck Agency has successfully completed thousands of cases, specializing in high-profile criminal defense cases helping to resolve cases involving multiple homicides, missing persons, white-collar crimes, and more. His cases have both state-wide and national significance. Carl is a nationally published writer and has worked as an editor and a reference librarian. Carl has experience teaching at both high school and college level, most recently teaching a series in the techniques of interviewing and investigation. His professional practices have also qualified him to give testimony as an expert witness in numerous jurisdictions. He has a degree in English from the University of Michigan and an MFA from the University of Montana. Dhenu Maru Immigration Lawyer Dhenu Maru is an Immigration Lawyer, as well as the Founder and CEO of SwagatUSA, LLC. With over 10 years of experience, she specializes in family immigration and business immigration. She earned her law degree from Loyola University Chicago School of Law and her BA in Philosophy & Child Development from Tufts University. She was named a Rising Star by Super Lawyers for 2017, 2018, and 2019. She earned the title of Super Lawyer in 2021 and has been selected again for 2023. Jeremy Rutman, PhD Patent Attorney Dr. Jeremy Rutman is a Patent Attorney and the CEO and Founder of RutmanIP, a boutique intellectual property firm in Israel. With over 15 years of experience, Dr. Rutman specializes in drafting patent applications in various fields such as physics, computer hardware and software, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, green energy, and software. He holds a BS degree in Physics from Harvard University, where he graduated cum laude, and an MS and Ph.D. in Physics from the Technion - Israel Institute of Technology. Dr. Rutman has extensive experience turning start-up ideas into strategic assets and has published his work in many leading professional journals in the field. Lyle Solomon, JD Attorney Lyle Solomon is an Attorney and the Owner of the Law Office of Lyle D. Solomon. With nearly three decades of experience, he practices civil law and specializes in consumer debt relief services and bankruptcy. Lyle is also the author of Think Different! Save More! He holds a BA in Criminal Justice from The University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and a JD from The University of Pacific, McGeorge School of Law. Valery Cury Immigration Attorney Valery Cury is an Immigration Attorney based in Santa Ana, California. With over seven years of experience, she specializes in affirmative cases. Valery earned her Master’s Degree from Brooklyn Law School and her Bachelor’s Degree in Law from Pontificia Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra in the Dominican Republic. She is licensed to practice in the State of Connecticut. She’s also a member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA) and the Dominican Bar Association (DBA). James Fett Lawyer James Fett is a Lawyer based in Ann Arbor, Michigan. With over 35 years of experience, he specializes in alternative dispute resolution, civil litigation, civil rights, class actions, commercial litigation, employment litigation, and labor & employment. James earned a J.D. from The University of Michigan Law School as well as an MBA and BA from The University of Michigan. In 2001, he was awarded a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition, and the Washtenaw Trial Lawyers Association named him Lawyer of the Year in 1996. He’s also been named a Michigan Super Lawyer by Law & Politics Magazine and one of the ten Most Outstanding Lawyers of the Year by Michigan Lawyers Weekly. Scott Levin Divorce Mediator & Family Lawyer Scott Levin is a Divorce Mediator & Family Lawyer, as well as the Founder of San Diego Divorce Mediation. With nearly 20 years of experience, he specializes in peacefully mediating divorces so couples split amicably. He holds a law degree from the University of Chicago School of Law and a Bachelor’s degree in Metropolitan Studies from New York University. Additionally, Scott is a licensed attorney in California, a Certified Divorce Financial Analyst, and a member of The Academy of Professional Family Mediators. Camila Lopez Attorney Camila Lopez is an Attorney based in California. She co-founded People Clerk, a firm that helps individuals navigate the court system in an easy and affordable way. In 2024, People Clerk was acquired by fellow legal organization JusticeDirect Law, where Camila now serves as a Legal Educator. Her passion is breaking down complicated legal processes so that people without an attorney can get justice. As the Chief Legal Architect at People Clerk, she designed the company’s platform so that individuals can learn how to pursue their small claims lawsuits on their own. As a trained mediator, she is also passionate about the out-of-court resolution of disputes. Prior to JusticeDirect and People Clerk, she worked in plaintiff’s mass torts litigation and in consumer protection at the New York Attorney General's Bureau of Consumer Frauds and Protection. She received a Bachelor of Arts in Political Economy from the University of California, Berkeley, and attended Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York City, where she received the Mark Whitlock Scholarship for her effort, energy, spirit, and initiative that strengthened student life. David Katona Immigration Lawyer David Katona is an Immigration Lawyer and the Founder of Katona & Associates PLLC in New York City. With over 20 years of experience, he specializes in business immigration and green card sponsorship. He earned a law degree from American University Washington College of Law, a Master of International Affairs from American University’s School of International Service, and a BS in Business from Wake Forest University. Super Lawyers named him a Super Lawyer - Business Immigration in 2014, 2016-2022, and a Rising Star - Business Immigration in 2011. His firm was also rated by Best Lawyers as a Tier 1 immigration firm in NYC and Tier 2 nationally from 2020-2023. David is a member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA) and the NYC Bar Association. Deirdre Nero Immigration & Nationality Law Attorney Deirdre D. Nero is an Immigration & Nationality Law Attorney and the Founder of NERO Immigration Law, P.L., based in Miami, Florida. With nearly 20 years of experience, she specializes in business-based immigration, family-based immigration, and naturalization. She earned her law degree from the University of Miami School of Law and her BA from Florida State University. In 2014, Deirdre won Business Immigration Lawyer of the Year–Florida in the Global Mobility & Immigration Awards given by Acquisition International. She’s also earned an AV Preeminent rating from Martindale-Hubbell, which annually rates lawyers on their abilities and ethics. Additionally, South Florida Legal Guide named her a Top Lawyer in South Florida several years in a row. In 2019, Deirdre was honored to receive the Outstanding Entrepreneur Award at the 2019 AXA Businesswoman of the Year Awards by the Coral Gables Chamber of Commerce and the Merrick in the Making Award by the Coral Gables Chamber of Commerce. In 2019 and 2021, Deirdre was named to Florida Trend Magazine’s Legal Elite. Matthew Driggs, JD Attorney at Law Matt Driggs, Esq. has been practicing injury law in Utah since 1992, where he founded his own law firm, the Advocates Law Firm in 1996. He received his JD from S.J. Quinney College of Law in 1991. Timothy Morson Canadian Immigration Specialist Timothy Morson is a Canadian Immigration Specialist and a former Canadian Diplomat. With over 30 years of experience, Timothy specializes in Canadian immigration programs, immigration management, employer compliance, and international mobility. He holds a BA in Political Science from Concordia University and an MA in Journalism from Western University. Timothy is accredited by the Immigration Consultants of Canada Regulatory Council (ICCRC), Immigration Quebec, and is a member of the Order of Chartered Administrators of Quebec (Adm.A). He works to help people and companies around the world achieve their immigration goals. Barzin Barry Sabahat, JD Attorney at Law Barry Sabahat, Esq. has been practicing law in California since 1993. He received his JD from Western State University College of Law in 1992. His current practice is based in the San Francisco Bay Area and focuses on Estate Planning, Transactional Law and drunk driving cases. Staci A. Lane, JD Attorney Staci A. Lane is a Deputy Prosecuting Attorney in Wayne County, Indiana. She received her JD from Indiana University Maurer School of Law in 1998. Business & Personal Finance Michael R. Lewis Business Advisor Michael R. Lewis is a retired corporate executive, entrepreneur, and investment advisor in Texas. He has over 40 years of experience in business and finance, including as a Vice President for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas. He has a BBA in Industrial Management from the University of Texas at Austin. Andrew Lokenauth Finance Executive Andrew Lokenauth is a Finance Executive who has over 15 years of experience working on Wall St. and in Tech & Start-ups. Andrew helps management teams translate their financials into actionable business decisions. He has held positions at Goldman Sachs, Citi, and JPMorgan Asset Management. He is the founder of Fluent in Finance, a firm that provides resources to help others learn to build wealth, understand the importance of investing, create a healthy budget, strategize debt pay-off, develop a retirement roadmap, and create a personalized investing plan. His insights have been quoted in Forbes, TIME, Business Insider, Nasdaq, Yahoo Finance, BankRate, and U.S. News. Andrew has a Bachelor of Business Administration Degree (BBA), Accounting and Finance from Pace University. Carla Toebe Real Estate Broker Carla Toebe is a licensed Real Estate Broker in Richland, Washington. She has been an active real estate broker since 2005, and founded the real estate agency CT Realty LLC in 2013. She graduated from Washington State University with a BA in Business Administration and Management Information Systems. Sandra Possing Life Coach Sandra Possing is a life coach, speaker, and entrepreneur based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Sandra specializes in one-on-one coaching with a focus on mindset and leadership transformation. Sandra received her coaching training from The Coaches Training Institute and has seven years of life coaching experience. She holds a BA in Anthropology from the University of California, Los Angeles. Darron Kendrick, CPA, MA Financial Advisor Darron Kendrick is an Adjunct Professor of Accounting and Law at the University of North Georgia. He received his Masters degree in tax law from the Thomas Jefferson School of Law in 2012, and his CPA from the Alabama State Board of Public Accountancy in 1984. Archana Ramamoorthy, MS Tech Executive Archana Ramamoorthy is a Tech Executive based in Sunnyvale, California. She currently serves as Senior Director of Google’s Cloud Security Product Management division. Prior to her current role, Archana held leadership roles at multiple technology companies and has over 15 years of experience in the industry. Prior to her role at Google, she was at Workday for 8 years, culminating her time there in the role of Chief Technology Officer, North America. She is a product ninja and online security advocate. She also actively works to enable more diversity and inclusion in the tech industry. In 2021, she was a founder partner in Neythri Futures Fund, the first fund with a mission to increase the diversity quotient in the venture capital ecosystem. In particular, Neythri Futures Fund positions South Asian women to be key investors and stakeholders in the industry. Archana received a BS in Electronics and Communication Engineering from SRM University and an MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Duke University. Ryan Baril VP, CAPITALPlus Mortgage Ryan Baril is the Vice President of CAPITALPlus Mortgage, a boutique mortgage origination and underwriting company founded in 2001. Ryan has been educating consumers about the mortgage process and general finance for almost 20 years. He graduated from the University of Central Florida in 2012 with a B.S.B.A. in Marketing. Gina D'Amore Financial Accountant Gina D'Amore is a Financial Accountant and the Founder of Love's Accounting. With 12 years of experience, Gina specializes in working with smaller companies in every area of accounting, including economics and human resources. She holds a Bachelor's Degree in Economics from Manhattanville College and a Bookkeeping Certificate from MiraCosta College. Cassandra Lenfert, CPA, CFP® Financial Advisor & Certified Public Accountant Cassandra Lenfert is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and a Certified Financial Planner (CFP) in Colorado. She advises clients nationwide through her tax firm, Cassandra Lenfert, CPA, LLC. With over 15 years of tax, accounting, and personal finance experience, Cassandra specializes in working with individuals and small businesses on proactive tax planning to help them keep more money to reach their goals. She received her BA in Accounting from the University of Southern Indiana in 2006. Nathan Miller Property Management Specialist Nathan Miller is an entrepreneur, landlord, and real estate investor. In 2009, he founded Rentec Direct, a cloud-based property management company. Today, Rentec Direct works with over 16,000 landlords and property managers across the United States, helping them manage their rentals efficiently. Derick Vogel Credit Advisor & Owner, Credit Absolute Derick Vogel is a Credit Expert and CEO of Credit Absolute, a credit counseling and educational company based in Scottsdale, Arizona. Derick has over 10 years of financial experience and specializes in consulting mortgages, loans, specializes in business credit, debt collections, financial budgeting, and student loan debt relief. He is a member of the National Association of Credit Services Organizations (NASCO) and is an Arizona Association of Mortgage Professional. He holds credit certificates from Dispute Suite in credit repair best practices and in Credit Repair Organizations Act (CROA) competency. Helena Ronis Business Advisor Helena Ronis is Co-founder and CEO of AllFactors, a unified web analytics software to drive company's marketing and business growth. She has worked in product and marketing in the tech industry for over 8 years, and studied Digital Marketing & Analytics at the MIT Sloan School of Management Executive Program. Ben Whitehair Social Media Expert Ben Whitehair is a Social Media Expert and the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of TSMA Consulting. With over a decade of experience in the social media space, he specializes in leveraging social media for business and building relationships. He also focuses on social media’s impact on the entertainment industry. Ben graduated summa cum laude from The University of Colorado at Boulder with BAs in Theatre and Political Science as well as a Leadership Certificate. In addition to his work as CIO, Ben is a certified business and mindset coach and Executive Vice President of SAG-AFTRA. He is also a successful entrepreneur as the Co-Founder of Working.Actor, the premier business academy and coaching community for actors. Samantha Gorelick, CFP® Financial Planner Samantha Gorelick is a Financial Planner based in New York, New York. She is the Owner of Take Root Financial, a firm that provides accessible financial coaching and advocacy to help clients feel rooted in their financial lives. Before starting Take Root, she was the Lead Financial Planner at Brunch & Budget, a financial planning and coaching organization. She also spent 4 years working at Heron Wealth as a Wealth Advisor. Samantha has 10 years of experience in the financial services industry and has held the Certified Financial Planner™ designation since 2017. Samantha specializes in personal finance, working with clients to understand their money personality while teaching them how to build their credit, manage cash flow, and accomplish their goals. She received a Certificate in Financial Planner from the NYU School of Professional Studies and received a BA from Bard College. Arun Ghosh Real Estate Expert Arun Ghosh is a Real Estate Expert and Licensee with over five years of experience, specializing in commercial real estate. He recently received a certification in Commercial Real Estate Analysis and Investment from the MIT School of Architecture and Planning. As the founder of Hutfin.com, Arun created an online marketplace designed to streamline the selling and buying of commercial property. Previously, he worked as a certified Cloud Architect and DevOps Engineer and is a member of prestigious organizations such as REIN, ISACA, EC-Council, and PMI. He has also served as a U.S. Army Officer. He holds a Bachelor's Degree from the University of Kerala and a Master's Degree from the Hough Graduate School of Business at the University of Florida. Madison Boehm Business Owner and Advisor Madison Boehm is a Business Advisor and the Co-Founder of Jaxson Maximus, a men’s salon and custom clothiers based in southern Florida. She specializes in business development, operations, and finance. Additionally, she has experience in the salon, clothing, and retail sectors. Madison holds a BBA in Entrepreneurship and Marketing from The University of Houston. Fahim and Seema Mojawalla Shipping and Logistics Experts Fahim and Seema Mojawalla are Shipping and Logistics Experts based in Grand Island, New York. They are the Co-Owners of Island Ship Center, a shipping depot, print shop, small gift boutique, and business center. Founded in 2006, Island Ship Center is now one of the top three FedEx Authorized ShipCenters® in the country (out of 4,600 locations), is a FedEx Spotlight Store, and has the honor of being a PRINTING United spotlight store. They are also a USPS Approved Postal Provider and a UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet. The award-winning business has served as a training center and model in their industry for years, so much so that Fahim and Seema created AYM High Consultants, a contemporary business coaching enterprise for fellow business owners and purveyors in the printing and shipping industry. From their palletized freight packing and shipping warehouse operation, to their store serving individual clients’ mailing and shipping needs, Fahim and Seema have developed Island Ship Center to be the “Spa of Shipping.” Lucy Yeh Career & Life Coach Lucy Yeh is a Human Resources Director, Recruiter, and Certified Life Coach (CLC) with over 20 years of experience. With a training background with Coaching for Life and Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) at InsightLA, Lucy has worked with professionals of all levels to improve the quality of their careers, personal/professional relationships, self marketing, and life balance. Jonathan DeYoe, CPWA®, AIF® Author, Speaker, & CEO of Mindful Money Jonathan DeYoe is a Financial Advisor and the CEO of Mindful Money, a comprehensive financial planning and retirement income planning service based in Berkeley, California. With over 25 years of financial advising experience, Jonathan is a speaker and the best-selling author of "Mindful Money: Simple Practices for Reaching Your Financial Goals and Increasing Your Happiness Dividend." Jonathan holds a BA in Philosophy and Religious Studies from Montana State University-Bozeman. He studied Financial Analysis at the CFA Institute and earned his Certified Private Wealth Advisor (CPWA®) designation from The Investments & Wealth Institute. He also earned his Accredited Investment Fiduciary (AIF®) credential from Fi360. Jonathan has been featured in the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Money Tips, Mindful Magazine, and Business Insider among others. Elizabeth Douglas CEO of wikiHow Elizabeth Douglas is the CEO of wikiHow. Elizabeth has over 15 years of experience working and managing teams in the tech industry. She has held roles in multiple areas, including computer engineering, user experience, and product management. She received her BS in Computer Science and her Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Stanford University. Dmitriy Fomichenko Financial Planner Dmitriy Fomichenko is the president of Sense Financial Services LLC, a boutique financial firm specializing in self-directed retirement accounts with checkbook control based in Orange County, California. With over 19 years of financial planning and advising experience, Dmitry assists and educates thousands of individuals on how to use self-directed IRA and Solo 401k to invest in alternative assets. He is the author of the book "IRA Makeover" and is a licensed California real estate broker. Alan Mehdiani, CPA Certified Public Accountant Alan Mehdiani is a certified public accountant and the CEO of Mehdiani Financial Management, based in the Los Angeles, California metro area. With over 15 years of experience in financial and wealth management, Alan has experience in accounting and taxation, business formation, financial planning and investments, and real estate and business sales. Alan holds a BA in Business Economics and Accounting from the University of California, Los Angeles. Keila Hill-Trawick, CPA Certified Public Accountant Keila Hill-Trawick is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and owner at Little Fish Accounting, a CPA firm for small businesses in Washington, District of Columbia. With over 15 years of experience in accounting, Keila specializes in advising freelancers, solopreneurs, and small businesses in reaching their financial goals through tax preparation, financial accounting, bookkeeping, small business tax, financial advisory, and personal tax planning services. Keila spent over a decade in the government and private sector before founding Little Fish Accounting. She holds a BS in Accounting from Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business and an MBA from Mercer University - Stetson School of Business and Economics. Marcus Raiyat Foreign Exchange Trader Marcus Raiyat is a U.K. Foreign Exchange Trader and Instructor and the Founder/CEO of Logikfx. With nearly 10 years of experience, Marcus is well versed in actively trading forex, stocks, and crypto, and specializes in CFD trading, portfolio management, and quantitative analysis. Marcus holds a BS in Mathematics from Aston University. His work at Logikfx led to their nomination as the "Best Forex Education & Training U.K. 2021" by Global Banking and Finance Review. Imran Alavi Marketing Expert Imran Alavi is a Marketing & App Development Expert and the CEO of Proleadsoft, a Digital Marketing and App Development firm based in San Francisco, CA. With over 10 years of experience, he specializes in Web Design, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Search Engine Marketing (Google, Facebook, LinkedIn AdWords), App Development, and Software strategies for businesses. Imran holds a BS in Computer Science from the National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, an MS in Computer Science from San Francisco State University, and has completed Stanford University Continuing Studies courses in Business, Marketing, and Communication. Christina Bachelor Marketing & Advertising Specialist Christina Bachelor is a Marketing and Advertising Specialist and the Co-Founder and CEO of Bach Enterprises in Los Angeles, California. She specializes in navigating social media landscape, building long-lasting branded partnerships, and producing digital content. Christina holds a BA in Accounting from The University of Florida and an MA in Accounting from The University of Southern California. She has created numerous partnerships with notable brands including Toyota, Lyft, Postmates, EA Games, and Trident. Christina was the Executive Producer of “Dead House” for Kevin Hart’s Laugh Out Loud Network and the Co-Executive Producer for “Where’s the Money” starring King Bach, Logan Paul, Kat Graham, and Terry Crews. Christina also co-founded the RuJohn Foundation, which is a non-profit organization with a mission to provide the necessary tools for education to rural and inner-city schools throughout Jamaica and the United States. Jason Garvin Games & Retail Expert Jason Garvin is a Games & Retail Expert based in Broomfield, Colorado. He is the Chief Operating Officer of Total Escape Games, a gaming business that carries a broad collection of role-playing games, board games, paints, and collectible card games including Magic the Gathering singles. Total Escape Games hosts events and interactive gaming opportunities, and their community is incredibly welcoming to new players and hobbyists. Jason has over 7 years of retail experience. In addition to his role at Total Escape Games, Jason serves as the President of JTJ Holdings, Inc., where he focuses on mentoring emerging entrepreneurs and small businesses within the tabletop gaming industry to foster growth and innovation. Beyond his formal roles, Jason is also an active participant in the tech community with personal projects such as developing and maintaining his own website, contributing to his blog, and completing UI/UX projects. He received a BS in Psychology from Colorado State University. Rob Wu Digital Fundraising & Crowdfunding Expert Rob Wu is the CEO of CauseVox, a digital fundraising platform designed for nonprofits. CauseVox works to help do-gooders raise more money with less effort. Rob has raised over $200,000 for his own nonprofit crowdfunding projects, and his work has been recognized by CNN, Christian Science Monitor, and the Wall Street Journal. Arda Ozdemir, MA Career & Life Coach Arda Ozdemir is the Executive Coach and Founder of Rise 2 Realize, a nonprofit organization in Palo Alto, California that is dedicated to providing a practical roadmap toward one's full potential in their life and career. Arda is a Reiki Master, an Emotional Freedom Technique Practitioner, and a certified HeartMath Trainer and Mentor. Ara Oghoorian, CPA Certified Financial Planner & Accountant Ara Oghoorian is a Certified Financial Accountant (CFA), Certified Financial Planner (CFP), a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), and the Founder of ACap Advisors & Accountants, a boutique wealth management and full-service accounting firm based in Los Angeles, California. With over 26 years of experience in the financial industry, Ara founded ACap Asset Management in 2009. He has previously worked with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and the Ministry of Finance and Economy in the Republic of Armenia. Ara has a BS in Accounting and Finance from San Francisco State University, is a Commissioned Bank Examiner through the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, holds the Chartered Financial Analyst designation, is a Certified Financial Planner™ practitioner, has a Certified Public Accountant license, is an Enrolled Agent, and holds the Series 65 license. Jill Newman, CPA Financial Advisor Jill Newman is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in Ohio with over 20 years of accounting experience. She has experience working as an accountant in public accounting firms, nonprofits, and educational institutions, and has also honed her communication skills via an MA in English, writing jobs, and as a teacher. She received her CPA from the Accountancy Board of Ohio in 1994 and has a BS in Business Administration/Accounting. Christine Michel Carter Global Marketing Expert Christine Michel Carter is a Global Marketing Expert, Best-Selling Author, and Strategy Consultant for Minority Woman Marketing, LLC. With over 13 years of experience, Christine specializes in strategic business and marketing consulting services including market analysis, organizational alignment, portfolio review, cultural accuracy, and brand and marketing review. She is also a speaker on millennial moms and black consumers. Christine holds a BS in Business Administration and Art History from Stevenson University. She is a leader in multicultural marketing strategy and has written over 100 articles views for several publications, including TIME and Forbes Women. Christine has worked with Fortune 500 clients such as Google, Walmart, and McDonald’s. She has been featured in The New York Times, BBC News, NBC, ABC, Fox, The Washington Post, Business Insider, and Today. Janet Peischel Digital Media Expert Janet Peischel is a Writer and Digital Media Expert and the Owner of Top of Mind Marketing. With more than 15 years of consulting experience, she develops content strategies and builds online brands for her clients. Prior to consulting, Janet spent over 15 years in the marketing industry, in positions such as the Vice President of Marketing Communications for the Bank of America. Janet holds a BA and MA from the University of Washington. Ryan Conway Marketing Expert Ryan Conway is a Marketing Expert and the Founder of Digital Tradesman, a digital marketing agency that helps builders, contractors, and tradesmen grow their business online. With over a decade of experience, he specializes in marketing, web design, and search engine optimization. Ryan holds a BS in Business Administration and Entrepreneurial Studies from Hartford University. He also studied Graphic and Web Design at the Boston University Center for Digital Imaging Arts. Ryan participated in Seth Godin’s altMBA in the winter of 2016. Brian Stormont, CFP® Certified Financial Planner Brian Stormont is a Partner and Certified Financial Planner (CFP®) with Insight Wealth Strategies. With over ten years of experience, Brian specializes in retirement planning, investment planning, estate planning, and income taxes. He holds a BS in Finance and Marketing from the University of Denver. Brian also holds his Certified Fund Specialist (CFS), Series 7, Series 66, and Certified Financial Planner (CFP®) licenses. Ross Taylor Marketing Expert Ross Taylor is a Marketing Expert and the Founder of Alameda Internet Marketing. With over 10 years of experience, Ross specializes in Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Search Engine Marketing (SEM). Ross’ boutique SEO agency is a Google Partner agency, which has been recognized for its dedication to honest communication and quality service with awards from UpCity, ThreeBestRated.com, and Clutch. Ross holds an Associate of Arts degree from Chabot College and certifications in Google AdWords and CompTIA A+. John Gillingham, CPA, MA Certified Public Accountant & Founder of Accounting Play John Gillingham is a Certified Public Accountant, the Owner of Gillingham CPA, PC, and the Founder of Accounting Play, Apps to teach Business & Accounting. John, who is based in San Francisco, California, has over 14 years of accounting experience and specializes in assisting consultants, bootstrapped startups, pre-series A ventures, and stock option compensated employees. He received his MA in Accountancy from the California State University - Sacramento in 2011. Lily Zheng, MA Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Consultant Lily Zheng is a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Consultant and Executive Coach who works with organizations around the world to build more inclusive and innovative workplaces for all. Lily is the author of Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination (2018) and The Ethical Sellout: Maintaining Your Integrity in the Age of Compromise (2019). Lily earned her MA in Sociology from Stanford University. Vikas Agrawal Visual Content Marketing Expert & Entrepreneur Vikas Agrawal is a Visual Content Marketing Expert & Entrepreneur, as well as the Founder of Full Service Creative Agency Infobrandz. With over 10 years of experience, he specializes in designing visually engaging content, such as infographics, videos, and e-books. He’s an expert in Making content marketing strategies and has contributed to and been featured in many publications including Forbes, Entrepreneur.com, and INC.com. Art Lewin Entrepreneur Art Lewin is an Entrepreneur based in Los Angeles, California. He specializes in business, sales, marketing, and real estate investing. Art is the CEO and Founder of four companies based in Los Angeles: Art Lewin Bespoke, Healthy Choice Labs, SFR Properties, and Professional Business Network (PBN). Art is known globally for his exclusive custom-made and ready-to-wear business wear designs. Some of his notable clients include royal family members, politicians, and Hollywood stars including Hugh Hefner, Sylvester Stallone, Johnny Carson, Steve Allen, and William Shatner. Sarah Harkleroad Marketing & Branding Expert Sarah Harkleroad is a Marketing & Branding Expert and a Co-Founder and Brand Manager at Daor Design. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in brand strategy, logo design, website design, and marketing for small businesses. Sarah holds a BA in Graphic Design, a BA in Fine & Studio Arts, and a Minor in Business Administration & Management - all from Cedarville University. To date, she and her team at Daor Design have helped over 450 small businesses across the country build their brands. Jack Herrick Founder of wikiHow Jack Herrick is an American entrepreneur and wiki enthusiast. His entrepreneurial projects include wikiHow, eHow, Luminescent Technologies, and BigTray. In January 2005, Herrick started wikiHow with the goal of creating "the how-to guide for everything." He has a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Dartmouth College. Benjamin Packard Financial Advisor Benjamin Packard is a Financial Advisor and Founder of Lula Financial based in Oakland, California. Benjamin does financial planning for people who hate financial planning. He helps his clients plan for retirement, pay down their debt and buy a house. He earned a BA in Legal Studies from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 2005 and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from the California State University Northridge College of Business in 2010. Kendra Kinnison, CPA, MBA Certified Public Accountant Kendra Kinnison is a Certified Public Accountant in Texas. With over 20 years of experience, she has served in diverse roles in the finance space, and is now the COO of Allocations, a company that builds tools for economic freedom. She received her BBA in Accounting and Masters of Business Management (MBA) from Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi in 1999 and 2000. She is the youngest MBA graduate in the school’s history. Vinny Lingam Bitcoin Specialist Vinny Lingam is and investor and the CEO of Civic Technologies, a blockchain-powered identity protection and management startup. Vinny is known as the 'Bitcoin Oracle' amongst the cryptocurrency community. He was awarded the Top Young ICT Entrepreneur in Africa Award in 2006, was on the World Economic Forum for Young Global Leaders in 2009, and was voted one of the top 500 CEOs in the World in 2015. He is also an investor on Shark Tank South Africa. He has a BS in E-Commerce from the University of South Africa. Dave Labowitz Business Coach Dave Labowitz is a Business Coach who helps pre-entrepreneurs, solopreneurs/entrepreneurs, and team leaders start, scale, and lead their businesses and teams. Before beginning his coaching career, Dave was a startup executive who spent over a decade building high-growth companies. Dave’s “path less traveled” life includes adventures such as dropping out of high school, co-authoring a book in the Smithsonian Institute, and getting his MBA at Pepperdine’s Graziadio Business School. Paridhi Jain Certified Public Accountant Paridhi Jain is a Certified Public Accountant and the Co-Founder of Seva Ltd, a CPA firm operating in Maryland and Alabama. She has over 10 years of professional experience in the financial sector and has built a reputation for assisting small business owners navigate the intricacies of regulatory compliance, encompassing areas from company structuring and entity formation to detailed nexus determinations for income and sales tax. She is an active member of the Alabama Society of CPAs and has a certification in pre-professional accounting. She graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County with a major in Information Systems. Rafael Loza Real Estate Investor Rafael Loza is an accomplished real estate investor at Knight and Reign Properties LLC. With over 8 years of experience, Rafael has a diverse portfolio, specializing in short-term rentals, boutique hotels, and multifamily properties and has a proven track record of transforming his properties into high-yield assets. He also has extensive experience with AirBnb and in the hospitality industry, with his main focus currently being establishing systems, automations, and operations working well within the AirBnb and boutique hotel industries. Knight and Reign Properties has about 76 locations across the US, offering fully furnished rentals spanning from California to North Carolina. Karrie Thatcher Budget and Affordable Living Expert Karrie Thatcher is an affordable living expert and lifestyle content creator based in Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas. For over 6 years Karrie has created content to share tips and best practices for finding deals, couponing, saving money, and at-home earning opportunities. She is the founder of Goglitchdeals and has helped countless families create more stability and financial security, with a following of over 135,000 and a reach of 1 million per month. Karrie has a bachelor’s degree in sociology from The University of Texas at San Antonio. Chad Seegers, CRPC® Certified Retirement Planning Counselor Chad Seegers is a Certified Retirement Planning Counselor (CRPC®) for Insight Wealth Strategies, LLC in Houston, Texas. Prior to this, Chad worked as a Private Wealth Advisor for Sagemark Consulting for over ten years, where he became a select member of their Private Wealth Services. With over 15 years of experience, Chad specializes in retirement planning for oil and gas employees and executives as well as estate and investment strategies. Chad is a supporting member of the World Affairs Council and an emerging leader with the Global Independence Center (GIC). Melissa Rodriguez Marketing & Advertising Specialist Melissa Rodriguez is a Marketing and Advertising Specialist and the Founder of Social Media Relations out of Los Angeles, California. With over 5 years of experience, she specializes in branding, content production, social media marketing, and public relations. Melissa holds BS degrees in Global Perspectives and Corporate Finance and Accounting from Bentley University. Priya Malani Financial Advisor & Founding Partner, Stash Wealth Priya Malani is a Financial Advisor and the Founding Partner of Stash Wealth, a financial planning and investment management firm for HENRYs™ (High Earners, Not Rich Yet). She has over 15 years of wealth management and financial advising experience. Priya's work with Stash Wealth has been featured in Fortune, Wall Street Journal, and CNBC as well as entertainment and lifestyle brands such as the NYPost, Bustle, SiriusXM, and Refinery29. She earned a BA in Economics from Agnes Scott College in 2004. Ksenia Derouin Business Strategy Specialist, OBM, and Artist Ksenia Derouin is a Business Strategy Specialist, OBM, and Artist based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. With over ten years of professional experience, Ksenia works with wellness and social impact sector solopreneurs and organizations to support their business strategy, operations, marketing, and program development. Her mission is to support business owners in building thriving businesses and creating impact so that they can achieve a sense of purpose, career fulfillment, and financial independence. Adam Hack Cryptocurrency Expert Adam Hack is a Cryptocurrency expert based in Miami, Florida. He is the CEO & Founder at Coin Nerds, a multi-purpose cryptocurrency exchange platform that allows users to buy, sell, and trade their crypto in-person and online. Founded in 2018, Coin Nerds’ mission is to educate those with little to no experience in the rising Web3.0 economy through a combination of physical storefronts and intuitive online platforms. Through Coin Nerds, Adam has furthered his aim to not only make crypto purchasing increasingly efficient but to also capture the confusion behind crypto research into a necessary requirement for purchasing these assets. The platform prioritizes providing an accessible, customer-centric approach. Adam and Coin Nerds have been featured in multiple publications, including Yahoo Finance, The Wall Street Journal, and Fox Business. Adam recieved a BASc in Computer Engineering from the University of Waterloo. Kenneth Childs Private Investigator Kenneth Childs is the Founder, CEO, and Lead Investigator at Paramount Investigative Services based in LA, California. With over 25 years of experience as a private investigator, he has worked a variety of high-profile cases and served as an expert witness, proving his capabilities in the field and in the courtroom. Kenneth has self-published several books, including "How to Become a Private Investigator", "Catch a Cheating Wife", and "Catch a Cheating Husband". Paramount Investigative Services is the highest-rated private investigation firm in Los Angeles offering a wide variety of services, like child custody investigations, difficult service of process, personal injury investigations, background checks, and more. Kenneth has been prominently featured on Access Hollywood, The Dr. Phil Show, The Dr. Oz Show, Buzzfeed, and in LA Magazine. Tan Phan MSFP, CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER® Tan Phan is a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER® practitioner based in San Francisco, CA. With over 14 years of experience, Tan is the founder, CEO, and chief compliance officer of TAN Wealth Management, a boutique independent Registered Investment Adviser focused on providing comprehensive retirement planning and wealth management to successful families and professionals. Tan has passed the California Life and Health Insurance licensing exam, the California Property and Casualty Insurance licensing exam, the Series 6, Series 7, Series 63, and Series 65 exams, and the Certified Financial Planner (CFP®) exam. He served as a financial planner at Prudential Financial in the San Francisco Financial District. He was a member of Prudential Financial’s Field Advisory Council – Financial Planning Committee, the 2015 co-chair of the Ambassador Club for the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, and was named the 2016 Outstanding Student Award winner in the Master of Science in Financial Planning program at Golden Gate University. Tan also teaches graduate-level financial planning courses at Golden Gate University in San Francisco. Tan was honored as a member of the 2021 Class of 40 Under 40 by InvestmentNews. He earned dual Bachelor of Science degrees in Corporate Finance and Financial Services from San Francisco State University. He also earned a Master of Science in Financial Planning from Golden Gate University. Gene Linetsky, MS Startup Founder & Engineering Director Gene Linetsky is a startup founder and software engineer in the San Francisco Bay Area. He has worked in the computer science industry for over 30 years, with experience spanning staffing and management of engineering teams, game design and development, communication protocols, sales automation, and more. He has also been involved in incorporating computer science curriculum into high schools, developing educational software, and was a co-author on a computer science textbook. He is currently the Director of Engineering at Poynt, a technology company building smart Point-of-Sale terminals for businesses. Alfonso Cuesta Advertising Expert Alfonso Cuesta is an Advertising Expert and the Creative Director and Co-Founder of Salta With Us, a "Creativity First" boutique specialized in multicultural advertising and campaigns for digital and social media channels. After 20 years of working in global ad agencies for brands like Coca-Cola, PlayStation, and Discovery Channel in Europe, Latin America, and the US, Alfonso remains convinced that creativity is the best tool to engage audiences in any medium. Alfonso has a BA in Graphic Design and Advertising from the Centro Español de Nuevas Profesiones in Madrid, Spain. Brian Colvert, CFP® Certified Financial Planner Brian Colvert is a Certified Financial Planner and the CEO of Bonfire Financial. With over 15 years of experience in finance, he specializes in helping others plan for a secure and confident financial leap into retirement. Brian holds a BA from San Diego State University. Miri Rodriguez Business Brand Consultant Miri Rodriguez is a Business Brand Consultant and the Owner & CEO of Be Mindful Be Happy. She has been coaching business and individual brands for over 15 years in the areas of career development, personal development, branding, and storytelling for impact. She is the best-selling author of the award-winning book Brand Storytelling. She holds a Master’s degree in Integrated Communications and Marketing from Georgetown University and various certifications including Copyrighting, Technical Writing, Design Thinking, Six Sigma, and Prosci Change Management. Stacy Chretien, CFP® Certified Financial Planner Stacy Chretien is a Certified Financial Planner™ (CFP®) based in the Bay Area, California. With over 25 years of experience, she specializes in developing customized retirement and estate plans and developing tax minimizing strategies. Stacy has worked as a Certified Public Accountant™and  a Financial Consultant. She has also worked with various financial services, real estate, and non-profit companies. She holds a BS in Business and Accounting from California State university, Hayward. Stacy has completed her Certified Public Accountant (CPA) designation, successfully passed the Series 66 exam, and earned her Certified CFP® certification. Richard Casamento Digital Business Development Specialist Richard Casamento is a Digital Business Development Specialist and the owner of the WIN Marketing Group, a digital marketing consultancy based in northern New Jersey. With over ten years of experience in marketing and over 25 in electrical engineering, he specializes in content marketing, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), paid media advertising, television, and social media operations. He has grown the WIN Marketing Group to serve a diverse group of clients who benefit from a highly analytical and personal approach to marketing. Richard holds a BS in Electrical and Computer Engineering from The University of New Hampshire and a Certificate of Study in Lasers and Optical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Technology. Hannah Cole Enrolled Agent Hannah Cole is an Enrolled Agent and the Founder of Sunlight Tax. As an Artist and Tax Specialist with over 10 years of experience in freelance taxation, Hannah specializes in doing taxes for self-employed creative people and small businesses, setting up a business as a creative person, and personal finance issues in creative work. She has her Enrolled Agents license, which is a tax expertise and representation credential issued by the IRS. She has been hosted to speak about taxes for artists by institutions including the Harvard Ed Portal, the Boston Foundation, the New York Foundation for the Arts, RISD, and Cornell University. Hannah received her BA in Art History from Yale University, MFA in Painting from Boston University, and studied accounting at Brooklyn College. Tasmin Angelina Houssein Digital Marketing Expert Tasmin Angelina Houssein is a digital marketing expert and the Director of Marketing for My Pretty Bands based in Columbia, South Carolina. Tasmin is skilled in SEO content writing, Google Ads, marketing, and consumer engagement, specializing in fashion accessories. My Pretty Bands is a retailer of custom, high-quality Apple Watch bands designed to be elegant, adjustable, and lightweight. My Pretty Bands has been featured in Vents Magazine and the Associated Press. Tasmin also has nearly a decade of experience working in the tourism and hospitality industry, and regularly hosted high-profile clients throughout her previous career working for Chamada Prestige Hotels in Cyprus. She received a BS in Business Management with a concentration in Financial Management from University of Hull. Maureen Broemer DoorDash and Gig Economy Expert Maureen Broemer is a DoorDash and Gig Economy Expert. As a full-time DoorDash driver and content creator with experience across multiple delivery platforms, she shares practical strategies to maximize earnings, reduce stress, and create a more balanced gig work lifestyle. She has cultivated an online community on TikTok and YouTube branded as “Mo Side Hustles”, where she shares her life as a full-time DoorDasher with her 12K+ followers. She explains updates and changes to the service and app, gives advice on increasing productivity as a Dasher, and creates engaging edutainment content about her daily life as a Dasher. Her mission online is to spread positivity while helping others learn how to make the most of the gig economy. Through her online storefront, she provides information on DoorDash insider knowledge, shares tips on getting cash back on gas, recommends money-saving services, and more. Mo believes that gig work isn’t just about making money—it’s about creating a sustainable, fulfilling life. She combines practical earning strategies with a focus on mental and spiritual well-being, helping others find balance, avoid burnout, and cultivate a more positive and empowered mindset. Erin A. Hadley, CFP® Certified Financial Planner® Erin A. Hadley is the Managing Partner at Occidental Asset Management, LLC in California. Erin is a Certified Financial Planner with over 10 years of experience in investment management and financial planning. She has a Certificate in Personal Financial Planning from the University of California, Berkeley and is a member of The National Association of Personal Finance Advisors (NAPFA). Travis Peters Advertising Expert Travis Peters is an Advertising Expert and the CEO and Founder of the ad agency EightPM. With over 15 years of experience, he specializes in implementing marketing and advertising techniques across traditional and digital media. The commitment to collaboration and a hands-on approach by Travis and his team at EightPM have led to features in various platforms including Forbes, Ad Age, and The Austin Business Journal. Anna Colibri Digital Marketing Specialist Anna Colibri is a Digital Marketing Specialist and the CEO of Colibri Digital Marketing in the San Francisco Bay Area. Anna specializes in branding, digital strategy, product and service development, team management, and leadership development with a focus on women and minority business owners and professionals. Anna holds a Bachelor's degree in Sociology from The University of California, Davis, and a Master's degree in Social Welfare from The University of California, Berkeley. Colibri Digital Marketing is San Francisco’s first B Corp certified digital marketing agency. They won the 2019 Better Business Bureau Torch Awards for Ethical Business, the 2009 Local Excellence Award, and one of the Best Digital Marketing Agencies in San Francisco in 2017. Avery Carl Short-term Rentals and Real Estate Expert Avery Carl is a short-term rentals expert, real estate broker and CEO of The Short Term Shop based in Florida. Not only has Avery written two best selling books on the subject, Short-Term Rental, Long-Term Wealth and Smarter Short-Term Rentals, but she also hosts The Short Term Show Podcast with over 1 million downloads to date. Avery has been investing in short term rental as well as long term rental real estate since 2013, with a portfolio of 250 doors that spans and three asset classes. Her company, The Short Term Shop, is the top short-term rental and Airbnb real estate agency in the country, has helped over 5,000 investors purchase vacation rentals since 2018, and operates in over 20 top vacation markets. The Short Term Shop has been featured in top publications including The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, and Forbes. Brian Honigman Marketing Consultant Brian Honigman is a Marketing Consultant and the Owner of Honigman Media LLC. With over a decade of marketing experience, he specializes in consulting with organizations about digital marketing, social media, and content marketing. Brian holds BA in Political Science and Journalism from The University of Pittsburgh. In addition to being a Consultant, Brian is an Adjunct Marketing Professor at New York University and Francisco Marroquín University. His work providing consulting services, training workshops, and coaching programs led to him being named “Digital Marketing Expert” by Entrepreneur and a “Top Social Media Pro” by Social Media Examiner. Brian’s notable clients include The United Nations Development Programme, Thomson Reuters, NATO, and People Magazine. Charbel Atala Talent Acquisition Strategist & Managing Partner Charbel Atala is a Talent Acquisition Strategist & Managing Partner at Talent Gurus, a game-changing retained search firm located in the heart of San Francisco, California. With a unique blend of over five years in talent acquisition and a solid 15-year background in corporate law, Charbel crafts performance-driven talent solutions that are tailored to each client's unique culture and needs. Alexia Wright AirBnb Expert Alexia Wright is an Entrepreneur and Airbnb Expert based in Atlanta, Georgia. Alexia has become an expert in diversifying income streams and in utilizing the gig economy, and has invested heavily in both Airbnb property management and Turo rental car ownership. As an Airbnb property manager, Alexia has acquired properties and prides herself on taking care of the entire short term rental lifecycle in-house. She also advocates for investment in other sources, including vending machines, stadium suite ownership, and other sources. She has built a following on social media, and educates her 133K Instagram followers on how they can feel empowered to invest in side hustles and build their own businesses. She produces educational materials and guides to help others enter the businesses she has expertise in. She also takes on clients privately, offering 1 on 1 business coaching opportunities. Scott Maderer, MBA Master of Business Administration, Texas A&M University-Commerce Scott Maderer is a Certified Financial Coach and Stewardship Coach in San Antonio, Texas. He received a Master of Business Administration from Texas A&M University-Commerce in 2013 and is a Licensed Human Behavior Consultant (DISC) by Personality Insights, Inc. Small Giants Global Business Community Small Giants is a business community for purpose-driven leaders with the mission to share stories of incredible businesses and learn new practices and systems to implement in their own organizations. Each year, Forbes teams up with the Small Giants Community to identify the top 25 best small companies in America. Better Business Bureau Nonprofit Business Organization The Better Business Bureau, also known as the BBB, is a private, nonprofit organization focused on advancing marketplace trust. Founded in 1912, the BBB is a collection of 106 independently incorporated local BBB organizations in the United States and Canada coordinated under the International Association of Better Business Bureaus (IABBB) in Arlington, Virginia. The BBB provides direct services such as information about a company before you do business with it and with helping resolve a complaint you might have against a firm. The BBB also provides indirect services such as monitoring selling practices and alerting consumers to bad business and advertising practices. The BBB also provides accreditation to businesses, increasing their visibility and standards of integrity and excellence. Jear Keokham Marketing Expert Jear Keokham is a Marketing Professional and the Director of Operations and Creative Strategy at Aerial Canvas, a full-service agency providing real estate marketing solutions in California. With 6 years of experience and education, he specializes in marketing strategy, content production, creative processes, and organizational systems. Jear holds a BA in Art with a Minor in History of Art from The University of California, Berkeley. His dedication to high-quality photography, cinematography, and aerial drone services has allowed for Aerial Canvas’ work to be featured on various platforms including Compass, Sotheby's, Coldwell Banker Realty, and Vanguard. Kim Bates Enrolled Agent Kim Bates is an Enrolled Agent and the Founder of Central Florida Tax Services in Orlando, Florida. Established in 2007, Central Florida Tax Services is a full-service virtual tax firm specializing in taxpayer representation before the Internal Revenue Service, with a focus on payroll tax issues. With over 20 years of experience in tax and financial matters, Kim has handled everything from small tax controversy cases of unfiled tax returns to complex international audits. She has obtained the Enrolled Agent designation offered by the IRS and is also a certified Notary Public. Sarah Treger Business Coach and Copywriter Sarah Treger is a business coach and copywriter based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 12 years of experience, Sarah specializes in copywriting, digital marketing, and online course creation. Sarah has worked with over 6,000 people, helping them to start online businesses. Her business ranked number 24 in Education on the Inc 5000 list, and she has acted as a consultant for Meta. Sarah is the author of Bet On Yourself and shares additional strategy and helpful insights on her YouTube channel @SarahTurnerAgency. Sarah has also been featured in Inc, Business Insider, Shoutout LA, and Voyage LA. Chris McTigrit, MBA Master of Business Administration, University of Arkansas at Little Rock Chris McTigrit is an Accounting Professional. Chris has over 20 years of accounting experience including working for the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration. He received his MBA from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock in 2007. Eric Wester Banking Professional Eric Wester is the Operations Payment Managing Officer at MidWestOne Bank in Iowa. He has worked in the electronic payments industry for 14 years and has expertise in ACH payment operations. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration at the University of Wisconsin – Stout in 2012, and he is an Accredited ACH Professional (AAP). Emily Hickey, MS Marketing Consultant & Master's Degree, Business, Stanford University Emily Hickey is the Founder of Chief Detective, a social media growth agency that helps some of the world’s top retailers and start-ups scale their Facebook and Instagram advertising. She has worked as a growth expert for over 20 years and received her Master’s from the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 2006. Natacha Ciezki Real Estate Broker Natacha Ciezki is a US immigration lawyer. She became a member of the Texas Real Estate Commission in 2006 and has a JD in International Law from the Florida Coastal School of Law. She now works as a Senior Legal Advisor for the U.S. Department of State. Nick O'Neill Founder, 5 Calls Nick O'Neill is the Owner of 5 Calls, an advocacy organization making content, technology and grassroots action to support progressive causes and like-minded organizations in the United States. 5 Calls researches political issues, determines which representatives are most influential for which topic, collects phone numbers for those offices and writes scripts that articulate a progressive position. Trent Larsen, CFP® Certified Financial Planner Trent Larsen is a Certified Financial Planner™ (CFP®) for Insight Wealth Strategies in the Bay Area, California. With over five years of experience, Trent specializes in financial planning and wealth management as well as personalized retirement, tax, and investment planning. Trent holds a BS in Economics from California State University, Chico. He has successfully passed his Series 7 and 66 registrations and holds his CA Life and Health Insurance license and CFP® certification. Neal Gorenflo, MA Founder, Shareable Neal Gorenflo is the Executive Director and Co-Founder of Shareable, a nonprofit news outlet that covers the latest innovations in resource sharing, economics, and the future of work and cities. He has more than 10 years of experience as an entrepreneur, market researcher, stock analyst, and as Fortune 500 strategist. He has a Masters of Communication, Culture, and Technology from Georgetown University. Jerry Becerra Licensed Insurance Broker Jerry Becerra is the President of Barbary Insurance Brokerage in San Francisco, California. Becerra is a licensed Property and Casualty Insurance Agent, with over 30 years of experience in the insurance industry. He has taught courses on business insurance for the San Francisco Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center and has served as the President and Chief Financial Officer of the Golden Gate Business Association. Britt'ni Fields, MBA Master of Business Administration, Roosevelt University Britt'ni Fields, founder of TheMarketingChannel.co, is a small business marketing coach and consultant with over 10 years of experience. She has a Bachelor's degree and an MBA with a marketing concentration. She hosts a small business marketing podcast called "The Marketing Channels' Podcast" and coaches entrepreneurs toward reaching their marketing goals. Jackson Johnson, CPA PCAOB Expert & Former Inspector Jackson Johnson is a CPA with 16 years of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") experience. He has 8 years of experience auditing public companies conducted under PCAOB standards, along with 6 years of experience as an Inspector in the Division of Registration and Inspections at the PCAOB. He has performed approximately 100 inspections of PCAOB-registered firms in more than 10 countries throughout the world. He is also the founder and President of Johnson Global Accountancy, a public accounting and consulting firm which advises PCAOB-registered firms on PCAOB inspection, remediation, and enforcement matters. Payoneer Online Payment Platform Payoneer is a financial services company that enables millions of businesses and professionals to connect with each other and grow globally through cross-border payments platforms. Payoneer was founded in 2005 by Yuval Tal. It allows online money transfer and digital payment services and provides customers with working capital. Daniel Rusteen Airbnb Entrepreneur Daniel Rusteen is an Airbnb Entrepreneur and Author based in the United States. He got started in the short-term rental space in 2013, when he worked for Airbnb. Afterwards, he started Optimize My BNB, a website that helps Airbnb hosts around the world implement useful strategies to perform better on the platform and increase profits. He specializes in listing optimization to keep his clients’ occupancy and nightly rates high year-round, with 100% of optimized listings appearing on page 1 of associated Airbnb searches. He also authored "Optimize YOUR Airbnb: The Definitive Guide to Ranking #1 in Airbnb Search" in 2018, which sold more than 50,000 copies upon release via word-of-mouth sales only. His newest book is titled "Profitable Properties: Airbnb Insider Secrets to Find, Optimize, Price, & Book Direct any Short-Term Rental Investment for Year-Round Occupancy". In addition to educating Airbnb hosts, Daniel is an Airbnb Superhost himself. He received a BA in Business Economics and Accounting from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Tiffany Vaught Tax Accountant Tiffany Vaught is a Tax Accountant. Jenna-Rose Finnie Financial Coach Jenna-Rose Finnie is a Financial Coach. Cleaning & Organization Michelle Driscoll, MPH Founder, Mulberry Maids Michelle Driscoll is a professional cleaner based in Fort Collins, Colorado. With over 7 years of experience, Michelle is the founder of Mulberry Maids, specializing in cleaning homes and small offices. Mulberry Maids services Northern Colorado, including Fort Collins and Loveland, and offers a variety of services, including commercial cleaning, move-in and move-out cleaning, and regular home cleaning. Michelle holds a Master's in Public Health from the Colorado School of Public Health. Additionally, Mulberry Maids has an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau. Raymond Chiu House Cleaning Professional Raymond Chiu is the owner of Maid Sailors Cleaning Service, offering affordable residential and office cleaning services. Since its founding in 2014 in New York City, Maid Sailors has expanded to several cities, including Boston, Chicago, and Austin. The company has earned a reputation as one of the most reliable and best cleaning services in the industry. Claudia & Angelo Zimmermann House Cleaning Professionals Claudia and Angelo Zimmermann are the founders of Everneat, an Eco-Friendly Cleaning Service based in New York City and in Connecticut. They are also the founders of Clean Code, a DIY 100% natural cleaning product line. Kathryn Kellogg Sustainability Specialist Kathryn Kellogg is the founder of goingzerowaste.com, a lifestyle website dedicated to breaking eco-friendly living down into a simple step-by-step process with lots of positivity and love. Kathryn is the author of two books focusing on sustainability, 101 Ways to Go Zero Waste and 101 Tips for a Zero Waste Kitchen. She is the spokesperson for plastic-free living for National Geographic, has been featured by the Guardian, CNN, Refinery29, and Bustle, and has a following on instagram of over 700k. Ashley Matuska Professional Cleaner Ashley Matuska is a Professional Cleaner at the Founder and Owner of Dashing Maids in Denver, Colorado. Ashley has over seven years of experience in the cleaning industry. She and her team specialize in offering sustainable deep cleaning and maintenance cleaning services. She received a BS in Biology and Sociology from Indiana University. James Sears House Cleaning Professional James Sears leads the customer happiness team at Neatly, a group of cleaning gurus based in Los Angeles and Orange County, California. James and the team have nine years of experience and offer green cleaning, interior and exterior window washing, and general apartment cleaning services. He provides transformative cleaning experiences by reducing clutter and renewing your home environment. James is a Trustee Scholar at the University of Southern California. Katherine Tlapa Interior Designer Katherine Tlapa is an interior designer, currently working as a Design Specialist for Modsy, a design service based in San Francisco. She also runs her own DIY Home Design blog, My Eclectic Grace. She received her BFA in Interior Architecture from Ohio University in 2016. Garrison Hullinger Interior Designer Garrison Hullinger is an Interior Designer and the President of Studio Garrison. With more than 15 years of experience, he specializes in client-centered design that balances beauty and warmth with comfort and functionality. Garrison and GHID’s work has been featured in numerous publications such as The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and Interior Design Magazine. Garrison attended Oklahoma Christian University. Safir Ali Professional Dry Cleaner Safir Ali is the Co-Founder and CEO of Hamper Dry Cleaning and Laundry, a startup in Houston, Texas reinventing the laundry industry. With over six years of experience launching and operating Hamper, Safir specializes in innovative ways to simplify dry cleaning using the experience from his family's business. Safir holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration and Management from Texas A&M University. Hamper offers 24/7 on-demand dry cleaning and laundry through delivery and kiosk services. Hamper has been featured on the Houston Rockets, Station Houston, the Houston Business Journal, BBVA, Yahoo Finance, and Innovation Map. Ayad Mirjan Dry Cleaner & Laundry Specialist Ayad Mirjan is a Dry Cleaner and Laundry Specialist and the Founder of OrangeBag®, a toxin-free, sustainable, Los Angeles-based laundry and dry cleaning delivery service. Ayad has over four years of experience in the industry and he specializes in providing easy laundry and dry-cleaning solutions to professionals, families, and businesses. Ayad received his Bachelor's degree from The University of California, San Diego, and an MBA from Henley Business School. He is also a board member of the Entrepreneur's Organization Accelerator (EOA). Chris Willatt House Cleaning Professional Chris Willatt is a House Cleaning Professional based in Denver, Colorado. Chris is the owner of Alpine Maids, a cleaning agency that he founded in 2015. Chris is on a mission to elevate what it means to be a cleaning professional and has built up Alpine Maids with that goal in mind. Chris has been featured in USA Today, Forbes, and Readers Digest. Alpine Maids received Angie's List Super Service Award for three years in a row from 2016-2018. They were also awarded Colorado's "Top Rated Local House Cleaning" Award in 2018 and were featured on the Inc. 5000 Company List. Rani Gorgis Laundry & Cleaning Specialist Rani Gorgis is a Laundry and Cleaning Specialist and the Owner of Park Blvd Laundry & Dry Cleaners in San Diego, California. With several years of experience in the laundry and cleaning industry, Rani specializes in dry cleaning, wash-n-fold, shirt laundry, and servicing smoke-damaged clothes. He holds a BS in Accounting and a CPA certification. Guy Peters House Cleaning Professional Guy Peters is the Owner of MOP STARS Cleaning Service, a complete house cleaning service for residential and commercial clients, based in Denver, Colorado. Founded in 2014, MOP STARS provides regular, move in/out, deep, and commercial cleaning services. Guy has a BA in Finance from the California State University - Sacramento and an MBA from Cornell University. Alessandra Mendes Cleaning Specialist Alessandra Mendes is a Cleaning Specialist and the Founder of Cleaning Glow. With ten years of experience, Alessandra and her team specialize in providing residential cleaning services in the San Francisco Bay Area. All members of the Cleaning Glow team have completed thorough background checks. Kamel Almani Laundry & Cleaning Specialist Kamel Almani is a Laundry and Cleaning Specialist and the Co-Owner of WashyWash, a toxin-free and eco-friendly laundry and dry clean service based in Amman, Jordan. Kamel and his staff at WashyWash use Blue Angel certified and dermatologically-tested detergents. They also combine EcoClean and digital technology to provide an eco-friendly, convenient, and quality cleaning service. Kamel holds a BA in Design from the University of Applied Science, Amman. Bruna Coutinho Cleaning Expert Bruna Coutinho is a Cleaning Expert and owner of Bruna’s Cleaning Services based in Wilmington, Delaware. With over 10 years of experience and over 200 recurring customers, Bruna's Cleaning Services provides a variety of cleaning solutions to the DE, NJ, and PA areas. While boasting eco-friendly cleaning practices, some of Bruna’s specialties include Deep Cleaning, Commercial Cleaning, Post Construction Cleaning, and Airbnb Cleaning. In 2023, Bruna's Cleaning Services was voted a Neighborhood Fave on Nextdoor. Christel Ferguson Professional Organizer Christel Ferguson is the owner of Space to Love, a decluttering and organization service. Christel is certified in Advanced Feng Shui for Architecture, Interior Design & Landscape and has been a member of the Los Angeles chapter of the National Association of Productivity & Organizing Professionals (NAPO) for over five years. Jon Gholian Cleaning Specialist Jon Gholian is a Cleaning Specialist and the Founder of Cleany, a home and office cleaning concierge service based in New York City, New Jersey & Miami. Cleany specializes in providing quality cleaning and handyman services to all their customers. All Cleany employees are insured, bonded, and professionally trained. Cleany has been featured in the New York Times, Bravo & Redfin. Regina DeCorte Residential Cleaning Specialist Regina DeCorte is a Residential Cleaning Specialist and is the Founder of Maid in JC, a home cleaning service based in downtown Jersey City, NJ. With more than eight years of experience, she specializes in cleaning apartments, condos, and townhomes using natural products. Regina and her staff are fully bonded and insured. Filip Boksa House Cleaning Professional Filip Boksa is a House Cleaning Professional and the CEO and Founder of King of Maids, a company based in Chicago, Illinois. With over 10 years of professional experience, Filip and his team at King Maids specialize in providing home cleaning and organization services to their clients. They are dedicated to delivering high-quality and reliable service to ensure customer satisfaction. Elias Weston Cleaning Specialist Elias Weston is a Cleaning Specialist and the Founder of Seatown Cleaners in Seattle, Washington. Elias specializes in helping clients find cleaning services with instant booking and flexible pricing. Seatown Cleaners offers standard, deep, and move-in/out cleaning services using green products and cleaning techniques. Every cleaner is thoroughly vetted and every cleaning is backed by a 100% money-back guarantee. Alicia Sokolowski Green Cleaning Specialist Alicia Sokolowski is a Green Cleaning Specialist and the President and co-CEO of AspenClean, a green cleaning company in Vancouver, British Columbia. With over 2 decades of experience, Alicia specializes in creating a healthier, green alternative to chemical-based cleaning products and services. AspenClean develops and manufactures its own line of 100% Natural, EcoCert® certified, and EWG verified™ cleaning products. AspenClean’s glass cleaner was voted Parent’s Green Pick 2020 by readers of the Parents’ magazine. Alicia holds a CPA designation and a Bachelor’s degree in Commerce and Finance from the University of Toronto. Robert Shapiro Laundry Specialist Robert Shapiro is a Laundry Specialist and the General Manager at Milt & Edie's Drycleaners & Tailoring Center in Burbank, California. With more than a decade of experience, he specializes in dry cleaning, stain removal, tailoring, alterations, and green and eco-friendly cleaning processes. Robert has also been featured in publications such as Cleaner and Launderer Magazine. Florisa-Leila Ramos Cleaning Expert Florisa Ramos is a Cleaning Expert based in Leominster, Massachusetts. Florisa founded Office & Home Cleaning in 2017 and brings over 20 years of experience in the house cleaning industry. With a 5-star rating on Google, Office & Home Cleaning offers deep cleaning, move-in and move-out cleaning, and office cleaning services. With extensive training in cleaning business fundamentals and a workshop certification in commercial cleaning and facilities management, Florisa has built a reputable career in the cleaning industry, demonstrating expertise in both residential and commercial cleaning services. She has been featured on multiple online platforms, showcasing best practices, expert cleaning tips, and sustainable cleaning solutions. Recognized for her commitment to eco-friendly practices, Florisa prioritizes using safe, non-toxic products to protect both clients' spaces and the environment. Florisa has an Associate's degree in Business Administration from Mount Wachusett Community College. Kristin MacRae Organizing & Efficiency Strategist Kristin MacRae is an Organizing & Efficiency Strategist based in Hoschton, Georgia. With over 26 years of experience in operations, administration, productivity, and time management, she helps overwhelmed professionals, solopreneurs, entrepreneurs, and service providers streamline workflows, optimize processes, and manage time and projects with clarity and confidence. Her strategic approach empowers clients to reclaim their time, reduce overwhelm, and build sustainable systems that support both personal and professional growth. Since launching her business in 2012, Kristin has worked with more than 800 clients, saving them time, money, and stress through practical systems and personalized support. She is the author of Living an Organized Energized Life, a book and companion workbook, and the creator of a one-of-a-kind weekly planner designed to foster intentional living. Kristin has been a columnist for GoLocalProv and The Coastal Breeze News, and her insights have been featured in Success, Entrepreneur, and other national publications. Ryan Santos Cleaning Expert Ryan Santos is a Cleaning Expert and the Operations Manager at Spekless Cleaning in Washington D.C. Ryan has over five years of experience in the cleaning industry and his team has extensive knowledge of apartment, commercial, and home cleaning services. He and his team also write blog posts and share cleaning tips based on their in-field experience. Spekless Cleaning is rated as the top cleaning company in Washington D.C. Erik Bakirov Cleaning Specialist Erik Bakirov is a Cleaning Specialist at Room413 Cleaning in Los Angeles, California. Erik specializes in deep, move-in, and move-out cleaning services. Room413 matches homeowners with reliable and trustworthy cleaning services. They also promote environmentally friendly cleaning products. Sergey Paramonov Laundry Expert Sergey Paramonov is a Laundry Expert and the Co-Founder of FreshRobe laundry and dry-cleaning delivery service based in San Francisco, California. Sergey has over 10 years of experience in the industry and specializes in laundry, dry cleaning services, and delivery services.  His facilities use energy and water-efficient technology to prioritize a sustainable, professional cleaning service for all types of garments. Daniel Olin Home Cleaning Specialist Daniel Olin is a Home Cleaning Specialist and the CEO of Easyway Maid Service, a home-cleaning company based in Austin, Texas. With over four years of experience, Daniel and Easyway Maid Service specialize in executive-quality maid service, as well as vacation rental cleaning and overall home deep cleaning. Daniel holds a BA in Psychology from The University of California, Los Angeles. Jeimy Flournoy Laundry & Dry Cleaning Expert Jeimy Flournoy is a Laundry & Dry Cleaning Expert based in Capital Heights, Maryland. Jeimy is the Founder of Salon 809 and 809 Laundromat, which offers self-service, drop-off, and commercial laundry services. 809 Laundromat prioritizes cleanliness and providing exceptional customer service, and is passionate about giving back and making a positive impact. They have garnered over 5,500 customers and 125,000 cleans in their first year open. Jeimy is a dynamic entrepreneur with a diverse portfolio. Jeimy opened the second location of Salon 809 in 2019 and successfully franchised the brand. In 2023, she further diversified her entrepreneurial pursuits by launching the 809 Laundromat. Donna Serino Dry Cleaning & Alterations Specialist Donna Serino is a Dry Cleaning and Alterations Specialist and the Marketing Director for Hallak Cleaners, based in Manhattan, New York and Hackensack, New Jersey. She has expertise in tailoring and alterations, couture and casual wear, designer handbag cleaning, and suede, leather, and furs care. Donna and Hallak Cleaners are part of the National Cleaner’s Association, Drycleaning and Laundry Institute, and Leading Cleaners Internationale. Laura Smith House Cleaning Specialist Laura Smith is a House Cleaning Specialist and the Owner of All Star Cleaning Services. With over 16 years of experience, her team specializes in providing natural and eco-friendly house cleaning services. All Star Cleaning Services has earned the Association of Residential Cleaning Services International’s (ARCSI) Seal of Approval and maintained an A+ rating with the Better Business Bureau. Marcus Shields House Cleaning Professional Marcus is the owner of Maid Easy, a local residential cleaning company in Phoenix, Arizona. His cleaning roots date back to his grandmother who cleaned homes for valley residents in the 60’s through the 70’s. After working in tech for over a decade, he came back to the cleaning industry and opened Maid Easy to pass his family’s tried and true methods to home dwellers across the Phoenix Metro Area. Bridgett Price House Cleaning Professional Bridgett Price is a House Cleaning Professional based in Phoenix, Arizona. She has over 8 years of experience in the industry and is the Co-Owner of Maid Easy, a maid service company servicing the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area witih over 17k professional cleanings under its belt. Maid Easy was featured on CNBC's 'Made It!' program and was voted as The Best of The Desert - Residential Cleaning Service by AZCentral. She holds a Master of Management from the University of Phoenix, specializing in digital and traditional marketing. Brandon Beckwith House Cleaning Specialist Brandon Beckwith is a House Cleaning Specialist and the CEO of Reliable Housekeeping in Sacramento, California. Brandon and his team specialize in house cleaning such as maintenance cleaning, deep cleaning, move in/out cleaning, apartment cleaning, as well as commercial cleaning, window cleaning, and carpet cleaning. All members of the Reliable Housekeeping team receive background checks and professional training. Their family-owned and operated business is licensed, insured, and bonded. Ocean Van Laundry & Dry Cleaning Expert Ocean Van is a Laundry & Dry Cleaning Expert based in Long Beach, California. He is the owner and operator of Coco Laundry, a full-service Laundromat and Wash & Fold service. Coco Laundry is a family-owned laundry service that offers top-rated wash, dry, fold, and convenient pickup/delivery options. He and his experienced team of laundry professionals offer commercial and residential laundry services, plus a self-serve laundry operation. Jonathan Tavarez Cleaning Specialist Jonathan Tavarez is a Cleaning Specialist based in Tampa, Florida. He is the Founder of Pro Housekeepers, a premium cleaning service catering to residential and commercial clients across the United States. Founded in 2015, Pro Housekeepers uses rigorous training methodologies to ensure high-quality cleaning standards. He has also since founded Germaphobix, a hygiene and sanitization product company, where he leveraged his expertise in the cleaning industry to make innovative products. Jonathan has over nine years of professional cleaning experience and has over six years of experience as the Communications Director for the United Nations Association, Tampa Bay. Jonathan earned a BS in Management and Marketing from the University of South Florida in 2012. Andrii Gurskyi House Cleaning Professional Andrii Gurskyi is the owner and founder of Rainbow Cleaning Service, a New York City cleaning company specializing in apartments, homes, and moving cleanup using non-toxic and artificial fragrance free cleaning solutions. Founded in 2010, Andrii and Rainbow Cleaning Service has served over 35,000 customers. Amy Mikhaiel House Cleaning Professional Amy Mikhaiel is a cleaning guru and the CEO of Amy's Angels Cleaning Inc., a residential and commercial cleaning company in Los Angeles, California. Amy's Angels was voted Best Cleaning Service by Angie’s Lists in 2018 and was the most requested cleaning company by Yelp in 2019. Amy's mission is to help women achieve their financial goals by establishing empowerment through cleaning. Andrew Outman Cleaning Expert Andrew Outman is a Cleaning Expert based in Jacksonville, Florida. He is the Founder of Salty Veterans Services LLC, a cleaning company based out of Jacksonville. Previously, he held the role of Director of Operations at SVS Cleaning Services, a trusted partner for residential and commercial cleaning needs throughout Northeast Florida. Andrew has extensive experience in the cleaning industry and a deep understanding of effective cleaning practices and customer service. His cleaning businesses have all held 5-star review ratings on both Google and Facebook. Andrew received a BA in Interdisciplinary Studies from Central Washington University. Ahmed Mezil Cleaning Specialist Ahmed Mezil is a Cleaning Specialist and the CEO of Hellamaid, a cleaning service operating out of Southern Ontario, Canada. With over four years of cleaning experience, Ahmed and his insured and bonded Hellamaid cleaning staff specialize in house cleaning, post-construction cleaning, commercial cleaning, deep cleaning, and disinfection cleaning on various home/building surfaces. Ahmed holds a BASc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Waterloo, a MASc in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Toronto, and holds a Professional Engineering license in Ontario, Canada. David Liu Residential Cleaning Expert David Liu is a Residential Cleaning Expert at Anita’s Housekeeping Referral Agency. Since 1994, Anita's has been connecting homeowners, renters, and property managers with experienced cleaning professionals who offer deep cleaning, green cleaning, general housekeeping, maid services, post-construction cleaning, and window cleaning. David holds a BS from Carnegie Mellon and an MBA from INSEAD. Margaret Maragh Green Cleaning Expert Margaret Maragh is a Green Cleaning Expert based in New York City. With over 11 years of experience, Margaret and her team at Eco-Friendly Green Cleaning specialize in using environmentally friendly products for deep cleaning services. Margaret has also created a plant-based, unscented, all-purpose cleaner to further support the mission of using eco-friendly cleaning supplies in her work. Carolina Rodriguez Cleaning Specialist Carolina Rodriguez is a Cleaning Specialist and the Owner of Ecoverde Cleaning, based in the Washington, DC metro area. Ecoverde was born out of a desire to provide an eco-friendly cleaning option that competes with many traditional cleaning companies in the Washington, DC metro area. Through competitive pricing, attractive service plans, and friendly customer service. Ecoverde has built a strong residential and commercial customer base serving DC, Maryland, and Virginia, and has been named the #1 Green Cleaning Company in Washington DC. Carolina and her team specialize in residential and commercial cleaning services and use Green Seal Certified products. The team's cleaning technicians go through an extensive training process, learning about specific products, real-time cross-contamination, and how to use appropriate equipment for specific services. They also provide free cleanings to cancer patients through a non-profit organization, Cleaning For a Reason. Melissa Maker Founder, Clean My Space Melissa Maker is a Cleaning Expert based in Toronto, Canada. She has over 18 years of professional experience in the cleaning industry, and has created multiple businesses to educate others about cleaning and provide high-quality cleaning products. She is the founder of CleanMySpace, a YouTube channel and blog with over 2 million subscribers that has been creating cleaning content since 2010. She is also the owner of Maker’s Clean, a product line of premium, professional grade cleaning products that has been in business since 2016. Maker’s Clean sells a signature cleaning cloth design, mops, bath and beauty products, and cleaning guides and tutorials. NW Maids House Cleaning Service NW Maids is a House Cleaning Service based in Seattle, Washington. NW Maids has been active since 2013 with a mission to improve the house cleaning experience. The team offers recurring main services, home and apartment cleaning, deep cleaning, and move-in-and-out cleaning services. Kerri Christensen Cleaning & Organization Specialist Kerri Christensen is a Cleaning & Organization Specialist and the Owner of Busted Knuckles Cleaning. With more than seven years of cleaning experience, she specializes in helping others make their homes a cleaner place. Kerri holds a Bachelor’s in Human Resources Management and Services from Western International University. Austin Reinders Rug Cleaning & Restoration Expert Austin Reinders is a Rug Cleaning & Restoration Expert, as well as the President of Simonian Rug Cleaners in San Mateo, California. He specializes in cleaning oriental rugs. Simonian Rug Cleaners has been in the business of cleaning and repairing rugs for almost 70 years. Arturo Perez Residential & Commercial Cleaning Expert Arturo Perez is a Residential & Commercial Cleaning Expert and the Owner of Janitorial Plus LLC in Gresham, Oregon. With over nine years of experience, Arturo and his team specialize in commercial and residential cleaning. Their services include but are not limited to spring cleaning, commercial window washing, and move-in and out cleaning. Janitorial Plus LLC won Oregon's Top Rated Local Janitorial Company Award in 2018. Raina Ragin Cleaning Specialist Raina Ragin is a Cleaning Specialist based in New York City, New York. Raina got her start in the cleaning industry in 2008 and has continued to excel because of her passion for cleaning and commitment to providing each of her clients with a tailored experience. She now owns and operates Raina’s VIP Cleaning, which offers residential cleaning and services areas in California, New Jersey, and New York. Raina makes eco-friendly products herself and ensures that each client receives customized cleaning kits to avoid cross-contamination of germs and bacteria from one home to the next. Marina Mahnken Professional Organizer and Decluttering Expert Marina Mahnken is a professional organizer and decluttering expert based in Monmouth County, New Jersey. With almost 10 years of professional experience, Marina is the founder of Declutter My Clutter NJ LLC, which she launched in early 2016. She specializes in helping clients overcome clutter-related challenges and reclaim their spaces. Marina strives to create realistic, lasting solutions tailored to each client and their lifestyle. Marina is a long-time Golden Circle and Professional Member of the National Association of Productivity and Organizing Professionals (NAPO) and a member of the NAPO Virtual Chapter. She holds specialist certificates in Residential Organizing, Workplace Productivity, Life Transitions, Life Productivity, and Team Productivity, and has also earned a Foundations Certificate in Chronic Disorganization from The Institute for Challenging Disorganization (ICD). Her expertise has been featured in publications including Asbury Park Press and Market Watch. Declutter My Clutter was voted “Best of Monmouth” by Monmouth Health & Life Reader’s Choice Awards in 2017 and 2018. Grettel Monge Cleaning Expert Grettel Monge is a Cleaning Expert and the Owner & CEO of Essential Cleaners Miami, based in Miami, Florida. Grettel and her team specialize in residential, Airbnb, VRBO, and rental cleaning services. She is an IAP Career College Certification Cleaning Business Owner, IAPO International Association of Professional Cleaning Business Owner, and a Professional Member Organization IAPO. She was featured on Redfin.com in the article "Get a Sparkling Home this Spring with All-Natural Cleaning Products and Recipes, Plus Eco-Friendly Methods." Grettel received her Bachelor's Degree from Florida International University. Natalie Broyhill Professional Organizer Natalie Broyhill is a professional organizer based in Winston Salem, North Carolina. Natalie is the founder and owner of Tartan Professional Organizing, handling more than 100 projects per year and continuing to grow. Tartan Professional Organizing offers home and personal organizing services from general decluttering to dramatic transformations. Tartan's signature organizing style produces systems that are functional and spaces that are beautiful. Natalie's previous experience working in art museums informed and shaped her passion for organizing, especially for creatives. Oncemaid Cleaning Agency Oncemaid is a Cleaning Agency based in Huntington Beach, California. Oncemaid has been operating for over 20 years and serves over 20 different cities. Their cleaners offer various services including closet organizing, weekly cleaning, deep cleaning, and post-construction cleaning. Nat Ismaeil Cleaning Expert Nat Ismail is a Cleaning Expert based in Howel Township, New Jersey. He is the President of Pure Surface Care, a residential and commercial cleaning company. Pure Surface Care provides a wide range of professional cleaning services, including carpet cleaning, tile and grout cleaning, area rug cleaning, upholstery cleaning, hardwood floor cleaning, laminate and vinyl cleaning, and pet odor treatment. The company’s services cater to both residential and commercial clients, and they are dedicated to delivering top-quality service for all of their clients. Kate Rowley Cleaning Influencer Kate Rowley is a cleaning influencer based in Salt Lake City, Utah. With over 5 years of experience, Kate is known as @laterkates on TikTok and Instagram. She has created a safe, welcoming online space for over 270k followers, where she shares cleaning tips, hacks, routines, home maintenance, and product recommendations. Andrew Rohr Carpet Cleaning Specialist Andrew Rohr is a Carpet Cleaning Specialist and the President of MSS Cleaning out of Denver, Colorado. With over five years of cleaning experience, he specializes in carpet cleaning, stretching, and repairs as well as upholstery cleaning, water damage restoration, and tile and grout cleaning. Andrew holds a BA in Psychology and Business Administration from The University of New Hampshire and an MBA in Corporate Finance from The University of Denver. Donna Smallin Kuper Professional Organizer Donna Smallin Kuper is a retired cleaning and organization expert. Donna is the best-selling author of more than a dozen books on clearing clutter and simplifying life, and her work has been published in Better Homes & Gardens, Real Simple, and Woman’s Day. She has been a featured guest on CBS Early Show, Better TV, and HGTV. In 2006, she received the Founders Award from the National Association of Professional Organizers. She is an Institute of Inspection, Cleaning and Restoration (IICRC) Certified House Cleaning Technician. Sharie Shepherd Cleaning Expert Sharie Shepherd is a cleaning expert and digital creator. With over 10 years of experience, Sharie specializes in residential cleaning and move-out cleans. She has completed over 100 move-out cleans, tackling everything from top to bottom. She has become known as Cleaning Fairy Sharie online, sharing tested tips, product reviews, cleaning challenges, and more in a compassionate, non-judgmental way to over 228k followers. Sharie is also passionate about sharing products and tools she trusts. Fabricio Ferraz House Cleaning Professional Fabricio Ferraz is the Co-Owner and Operator of Hire a Cleaning. Hire a Cleaning is a family owned and operated business that has been serving San Francisco, California homes for over 10 years. Jennifer Rodriguez Cleaning Guru & Chief Hygiene Officer, Pro Housekeepers Jennifer Rodriguez is the Chief Hygiene Officer at Pro Housekeepers, a nationwide cleaning business. She has over two decades of experience cleaning both residential and commercial properties, and has been featured in publications such as First For Women, Fatherly, Business Insider and NBC News. Melanie Garcia Professional House Cleaner Melanie Garcia is the Co-Owner of Oranges & Lemons, a small, family cleaning business based in Downtown Los Angeles, California (DTLA) in operation for over 40 years. Oranges & Lemons operates while partnering with the National Domestic Workers Alliance and Hand in Hand: Domestic Employers Network. Automotive Jason Shackelford Auto Technician Jason Shackelford is the Owner of Stingray Auto Repair, a family owned and operated auto repair shop with locations in Seattle and Redmond, Washington. He has over 24 years of experience in auto repair and services, and every single technician on Jason’s team has more than 10 years of experience. Chad Zani Auto Detailing Expert Chad Zani is an Auto Detailing Expert based in Los Angeles, California. He is the Director of Franchising at Detail Garage, an automotive detailing company with locations around the U.S. and Sweden. He and his team are auto detailing experts that offer detailing and car care services. Ed Beery Automotive Specialist Ed Beery is an Automotive Specialist and the Owner of InTechgrity Automotive Excellence based in Denver, Colorado. With more than eight years of experience, he specializes in providing maintenance and repair services for both individuals and companies. Ed and the InTechgrity Automotive Excellence Team are approved by the American Automobile Association (AAA) for repairs and are Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) certified. Charley Helvy Automotive Expert Charley Helvy is an Automotive & Diesel Expert based in Avondale, Arizona. He is the founder of Charley’s Garage, an educational YouTube channel focusing on simple videos for automotive and truck enthusiasts. He has over 31 years of experience in the automotive world. He is a Diesel Instructor at the Universal Technical Institute and is a certified ASE Master Heavy Truck Technician. He offers training on gas and diesel engines on his YouTube channel, along with other DIY and explanation videos for beginners and enthusiasts alike. In 2024, he published a complete guide on Emissions Systems in Automotive and Diesel Vehicles. Simon Miyerov Driving Instructor Simon Miyerov is the President and Driving Instructor for Drive Rite Academy, a driving academy based out of New York City. Simon has over 8 years of driving instruction experience. His mission is to ensure the safety of everyday drivers and continue to make New York a safer and efficient driving environment. Tom Eisenberg Auto Technician Tom Eisenberg is the Owner and General Manager of West Coast Tires & Service in Los Angeles, California, a family-owned AAA-approved and certified auto shop. Tom has over 10 years of experience in the auto industry. Modern Tire Dealer Magazine voted his shop one of the Best 10 Operations in the Country. Duston Maynes Automotive Repair Specialist Duston Maynes is an Automotive Repair Specialist at RepairSmith. Duston specializes in leading a team that handles a variety of automotive repairs including replacing spark plugs, front and rear brake pads, fuel pumps, car batteries, alternators, timing belts, and starter motors. Duston holds an Associate’s degree in Automotive/Diesel Technology from The Universal Technical Institute of Arizona and is a Certified Diagnostic Technician and Automobile Mechanics Technician through BMW STEP. RepairSmith received The 2020 Big Innovation Award by Business Intelligence Group and The Startup of the Year by the American Business Awards. RepairSmith was also included in Built in LA’s 50 Startups to Watch and The Business Intelligence Group’s 52 Names Leading the Way in Customer Service. RepairSmith offers in-home services to provide car owners convenient and complete auto repair everywhere. Jonas Jackel Owner, Huckleberry Bicycles Jonas Jackel is the Owner of Huckleberry Bicycles, a bicycle retail store based in San Francisco, California. Jonas has over 20 years of experience managing bicycle retail stores and has operated Huckleberry Bicycles since 2011. Huckleberry Bicycles specializes in servicing, repairing, and custom building road, cross, gravel, touring, folding, and e-bikes. Jonas was also previously sat on the Board of Directors for Bike East Bay, a bicycle-advocacy non-profit organization based in Oakland, California. Bryan Hamby Professional Auto Broker Bryan Hamby is the owner of Auto Broker Club, a trusted auto brokerage in Los Angeles, California. He founded Auto Broker Club in 2014 out of a passion for cars and a unique talent for customizing the car dealership process to be on the buyer’s side. With 1,400+ deals closed, and a 90% customer retention rate, Bryan’s focus is to simplify the car buying experience through transparency, fair pricing, and world class customer service. Ibrahim Onerli Driving Instructor Ibrahim Onerli is a Driving Instructor and the Manager of Revolution Driving School in New York City. His mission is to make the world a better place by teaching safe driving. Ibrahim trains and manages a team of over eight driving instructors. He specializes in teaching defensive driving and stick shift driving. American Automobile Association Motor Club Federation The American Automobile Association (also known as "AAA" or "Triple A") is a federation of motor clubs throughout North America and a non-profit organization focused on the safety of the driving public and the future of mobility. Best known for providing its members with roadside assistance, AAA has also been providing auto repair services and insurance for auto, home, life, and business for over a century. Founded in 1902, AAA is headquartered in Heathrow, Florida. Ikaika Cox Bicycle Mechanic Ikaika Cox is the Shop Director at the Salt Lake City branch Bicycle Collective in Salt Lake City, Utah. He has been a bike mechanic since 2012, beginning as a volunteer with the Provo Bicycle Collective, and growing and honing his skills as a bicycle mechanic and educator in multiple Bicycle Collective locations over the years. He now leads the Salt Lake City branch of the Bicycle Collective. Angel Ricardo Auto Technician Angel Ricardo is the owner of Ricardo's Mobile Auto Detail headquartered in Venice, California. With over 10 years of experience in mobile detailing, Angel continues to attend auto detailing trainings to improve his customer service and auto detailing skills. Matthew Rava Auto Repair Expert Matthew Rava is an Auto Repair Expert and the Co-founder & Head of Marketing of Brakes to You. He specializes in auto repairs that concern brakes. Matthew earned a BS from West Chester University of Pennsylvania. Audra Fordin Certified Automotive Technician Audra Fordin is a Certified Automotive Technician, the Founder of Women Auto Know, and the Owner of Great Bear Auto Repair in Flushing, New York. With more than 38 years of experience, she has intensive knowledge about foreign and domestic auto repairs. Audra has been featured on numerous news and talk shows such as The Today Show, Inside Edition, and Anderson Cooper. Howard Fleischmann Automotive Tire & Repair Specialist Howard Fleischmann is an Automotive Tire and Repair Specialist and the CEO of Community Tire Pros & Auto Repair, with ten locations throughout Phoenix, Glendale, Yuma, and Casa Grande, Arizona. Howard specializes in full-service auto repair and tire replacement and care for domestic/imported vehicles and large trucks. Howard’s dedication to Community Tire Pros & Auto Repair has earned their team multiple awards and features including the 2021 Phoenix Magazine AZ State 48 “Best of the Best!”, the 2020 “Best of Phoenix” in Auto Repair, the 2013 Master SBD award, the 2013 National “Top Shop” award by Tire Review, the 2012 Diversity Champions Phx Business Journal, the 2009 BBB Ethics award, the 2008 Phx Chamber of Commerce Impact Award -” Small Business of the Year”, and the 2008 ASU Spirit of Enterprise award. Howard is often referred to as “The Car Guy” for local TV stations and is a regular on TV’s Channel 3 Sunday, Good Morning Arizona monthly. Tommy Goldberg Automotive Expert Tommy Goldberg is an Automotive Expert and the Director of Product Development at Obsessed Garage based in Lady Lake, Florida. Tommy has been part of the Obsessed Garage team since 2020 and is responsible for the team's product development and testing strategies. He is an expert in car detailing, pressure washers, and proper techniques to maintain cars. Tommy has a degree in Mechanical Engineering. Mike Parra Master Mechanic Mike Parra is a Master Mechanic in Arizona. With over 20 years of mechanic experience, he has experience working with American, European, and other foreign makes and models. He is ASE (Automotive Service Excellence) certified and has an AA degree in Automotive Repair Technology. Jacqueline Regev Driving Instructor Jacqueline Regev is a Driving Instructor and the Founder & CEO of Bubble of Safety Driving School. With over 20 years of education experience, she specializes in encouraging people to develop their skills to become safe and courteous drivers. Jacqueline earned a Bachelor's Degree from UCLA and an MA from Chapman University. She is also pursuing a PhD from UC Santa Barbara. Nick Psaros Automotive Expert Nick Psaros is an Automotive Expert working to encourage people to become car enthusiasts and share useful automotive content with people around the world. He has spent the past six years building an online following and community dedicated to automotive excellence. He has a follower base of over 10,000 YouTube subscribers and has garnered over 1 million views on his channel. Jay Goninen Automotive Expert Jay Goninen is an Automotive Expert and the Co-Founder and President of WrenchWay. Jay started working in his family's repair shop when he was nine and has been deeply passionate about the industry since then. He has experience as a technician and is currently a Board Member for both the Diesel Technology Program at Madison Area Technical College and the Community Alliance for the Skilled Trades. Evan Ernst Classic Automotive Expert Evan Ernst is a classic automotive expert based in Spokane, Washington. Evan and his twin brother Nick are the founders of ClassicNation, an automotive enthusiast website. With over 36,000 YouTube subscribers, Evan and Nick share videos covering one of their many classic car restoration projects, an interesting 'featured ride', or helpful how-to repair videos. Michael Dey Automotive Enthusiast Michael Dey is an Automotive Enthusiast specializing in sharing detailed automotive content and restorations on rare and exotic vehicles. Michael has been passionately working on and restoring cars for over 15 years. He has a follower base of over 30,000 YouTube subscribers and 28 million views. Michael is a Factory Trained Master Guild Audi Technician and ASE Certified Master Automotive Technician. Rocco Lovetere Master Mechanic Rocco Lovetere is the Owner and a Master Mechanic at Rocco's Mobile Auto Repair in California. With over 20 years of experience, he specializes in Honda, Acura, Toyota, Nissan, Infiniti, and Volvo cars. He is an ASE Certified Automotive technician and has worked in automotive repair since 1999. Charlie Payne Auto Repair Expert Charlie Payne is an Auto Repair Expert and the Owner & Operator of Perfect Reflections Auto Body based in Glasgow, KY. With over 21 years of experience, he specializes in auto restorations and collision repairs. Charlie is PPG and DuPont certified and earned a Bachelor's Degree from Liberty University. Frank Hernandez Auto Technician Frank Hernandez is an ASE Master Certified Technician based in La Palma, CA. With over 7 years of experience, Frank is certified in collision, maintenance and light, and undercar repair. He is currently an Automotive Technology Instructor teaching on-board diagnostics, maintenance & repair, and customer service. Frank has an Associate of Science degree in Automotive Engineering Technology from Cypress College. Driver Matty Rideshare and Taxi Driving Expert Driver Matty is a Rideshare and Taxi Driving Expert based in Liverpool, England. He is the owner of DM Airport Transfers, a company providing professional and reliable taxi & minibus transfers to all major UK airports, train stations, and stadiums and arenas. He also has experience working for the gig economy. Matty is a passionate YouTuber, and has developed a niche online sharing exciting content all about driving, cars, and life on the road as a Taxi driver in Liverpool. He has several years of experience as a taxi driver and content creator on YouTube, and more recently has started sharing his journeys on TikTok and Instagram. Matty shares day-in-the-life vlogs, Uber and taxi driving tips, industry news, and general car content. He has over 14K followers on TikTok and over 14K subscribers on YouTube. Jay Safford Master Mechanic Jay Safford is an Automotive Consultant and Project Manager. He is Automotive Service Excellence (ASE), NAFA Fleet Management Association, Ford, and L1 Certified. He has over 15 years of automotive repair experience and has served as an Automotive Instructor at the Lincoln Technical Institute in West Palm Beach, Florida. Andrew Quinn Master Mechanic Andrew Quinn is a Master Mechanic in Kansas City, Missouri. He is ASE (Automotive Service Excellence) certified and has over 9 years of experience working with companies such as Valvoline, Instant Oil Change, National Tire & Battery, and Tires Plus. Andrew Everett Master Mechanic Andrew Everett is a Master Mechanic in Cary, North Carolina. He has an Associates in Applied Sciences focusing on Industrial Technology from Central Carolina Community College and has been doing automotive repair since 1995. Chris Atkinson Palo Alto Bicycles Chris Atkinson is an associate at Yuba Expeditions in Quincy, California, and the former Sales Manager at Palo Alto Bicycles in Palo Alto, California. Chris has worked in outdoor sporting since 2003. Alexander Douglas Auto Mechanic Alexander Douglas is a mechanic at Planet Auto in California. He has been a mechanic since 1997 and is ASE (Automotive Service Excellence) certified. Derek Spohn Master Mechanic Derek Spohn is an Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) and Hybrid Certified Master Mechanic, and has been doing automotive repair since 1998. He is now an automotive shop teacher at Ponderosa High School in Parker, Colorado. Joe Hough III Master Mechanic Joe Hough III is a Master Mechanic in Florida. He specialize in diagnostics, electrical, drivability, and air conditioning, and has been doing automotive repair since 1978. Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission Highway Administration Organization The Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission is the organization in charge of the operation and maintenance of the Pennsylvania Turnpike, a toll highway in the state of Pennsylvania. Chris Latocki Master Mechanic Chris Latocki is a Master Mechanic in Sarasota, Florida. He works in automotive repair and diagnostics at both dealerships and independent shops. Chris has over 20 years of experience as a mechanic. Writing & Communication Gerald Posner Author & Journalist Gerald Posner is an Author & Journalist based in Miami, Florida. With over 35 years of experience, he specializes in investigative journalism, nonfiction books, and editorials. He holds a law degree from UC College of the Law, San Francisco, and a BA in Political Science from the University of California-Berkeley. He’s the author of thirteen books, including several New York Times bestsellers, the winner of the Florida Book Award for General Nonfiction, and has been a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in History. He was also shortlisted for the Best Business Book of 2020 by the Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing. Michelle Golden, PhD PhD in English, Georgia State University Michelle Golden is an English Teacher based in Hoschton, Georgia. She is a High School English Teacher employed at Jackson County High School, where she has been working since 2017. Currently, Michelle serves her students by teaching AP Language, Writer’s Workshop, and Yearbook. Michelle has experience teaching both high school and college students. She received her MA in Language Arts Teacher Education in 2008 and earned a PhD in English: Renaissance Literature and Renaissance and Classical Rhetoric from Georgia State University. Stephanie Wong Ken, MFA Master of Fine Arts, Creative Writing, Portland State University Stephanie Wong Ken is a writer based in Canada. Stephanie's writing has appeared in Joyland, Catapult, Pithead Chapel, Cosmonaut's Avenue, and other publications. She holds an MFA in Fiction and Creative Writing from Portland State University. Kendall Payne Writer, Director, & Stand-up Comedian Kendall Payne is a Writer, Director, and Stand-up Comedian based in Brooklyn, New York. Kendall specializes in directing, writing, and producing comedic short films. Her films have screened at Indie Short Fest, Brooklyn Comedy Collective, Channel 101 NY, and 8 Ball TV. She has also written and directed content for the Netflix is a Joke social channels and has written marketing scripts for Between Two Ferns: The Movie, Astronomy Club, Wine Country, Bash Brothers, Stand Up Specials and more. Kendall runs an IRL internet comedy show at Caveat called Extremely Online, and a comedy show for @ssholes called Sugarp!ss at Easy Lover. She studied at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre and at New York University (NYU) Tisch in the TV Writing Certificate Program. Lucy V. Hay Professional Writer Lucy V. Hay is a Professional Writer based in London, England. With over 20 years of industry experience, Lucy is an author, script editor, and award-winning blogger who helps other writers through writing workshops, courses, and her blog Bang2Write. Lucy is the producer of two British thrillers, and Bang2Write has appeared in the Top 100 round-ups for Writer’s Digest & The Write Life and is a UK Blog Awards Finalist and Feedspot’s #1 Screenwriting blog in the UK. She received a B.A. in Scriptwriting for Film & Television from Bournemouth University. Alicia Cook Professional Writer Alicia Cook is a Professional Writer based in Newark, New Jersey. With over 12 years of experience, Alicia specializes in poetry and uses her platform to advocate for families affected by addiction and to fight for breaking the stigma against addiction and mental illness. She holds a BA in English and Journalism from Georgian Court University and an MBA from Saint Peter’s University. Alicia is a bestselling poet with Andrews McMeel Publishing and her work has been featured in numerous media outlets including the NY Post, CNN, USA Today, the HuffPost, the LA Times, American Songwriter Magazine, and Bustle. She was named by Teen Vogue as one of the 10 social media poets to know and her poetry mixtape, “Stuff I’ve Been Feeling Lately” was a finalist in the 2016 Goodreads Choice Awards. Melessa Sargent Professional Writer Melessa Sargent is the President of Scriptwriters Network, a non-profit organization that brings in entertainment professionals to teach the art and business of script writing for TV, features and new media. The Network serves its members by providing educational programming, developing access and opportunity through alliances with industry professionals, and furthering the cause and quality of writing in the entertainment industry. Under Melessa's leadership, SWN has won numbers awards including the Los Angeles Award from 2014 through 2021, and the Innovation & Excellence award in 2020. Tian Zhou Language Specialist Tian Zhou is a Language Specialist and the Founder of Sishu Mandarin, a Chinese Language School in the New York metropolitan area. Tian holds a Bachelor's Degree in Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language (CFL) from Sun Yat-sen University and a Master of Arts in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) from New York University. Tian also holds a certification in Foreign Language (&ESL) - Mandarin (7-12) from New York State and certifications in Test for English Majors and Putonghua Proficiency Test from The Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China. He is the host of MandarinPod, an advanced Chinese language learning podcast. Shari Fairclough Social Media & Graphic Design Expert Shari Fairclough is a Social Media & Graphic Design Expert based in Atlanta, Georgia. Shari is a versatile designer with extensive experience in social media marketing, UX/UI design, and graphic print production. She has over 4 years of both freelance and in-house experience working as a UX and Graphic Designer. She currently works as the Social Media & Marketing Coordinator at Guidepost Montessori. In this role, Shari curates engaging content and enhances the school's online presence. In 2022, Shari founded Sunni Aesthetics, a design platform that blends culture, design, and art. Shari holds a Google UX Design certification. Additionally, she studied graphic design at The Creative Circus, has four years of experience working as an assistant teacher, and is certified as a TEFL instructor. Shari has contributed to various publications, including Canvas Rebel, VoyageATL, and 11 Alive, and has film credits on IMDb for her work in "Black Lightning," "The Color Purple," and "The Staircase." She received a BA in Film & Media from Georgia State University. Manny Garavito Comedian Manny Garavito is a stand-up comedian, producer, and founder of Miami Comedy — a platform that has cultivated one of the most vibrant underground comedy scenes in Miami, Florida. He has been featured in The Miami New Times and VoyageMIA as a comedy expert. Manny has produced over 5,000 live comedy shows, coached dozens of comedians globally in developing their stage presence and comedic voice, and hosts the popular Miami Comedy Podcast, where he riffs on the quirks of Miami life with locals on his livestreams. Manny combines his entrepreneurial skills and comedy persona through his comedy coaching business, where he helps his clients build their unique comedy style, grow their confidence, and even create comedy content online. His work blends humor, coaching, and community building, making him a sought-after voice in both entertainment and personal development spaces. Jose Rivera Social Media Strategist and Content Creator Jose Rivera is a social media strategist and content creator. With over 5 years of experience, Jose, also known as Ricky Flicks, specializes in creating content that blends culture, comedy, and commentary, covering topics across anime, gaming, movies, and TV, and creator education. He has generated over 200M views across YouTube, TikTok, and Instagram, and has partnered with brands like Netflix, Sony, Marvel, and Disney+. Jose is passionate about utilizing his diverse perspective to create bilingual content that reaches a wider audience and inspires the next generation of creatives. He has a bachelor’s degree in Communication studies and a master’s from the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame. Claire Wang Language Teacher Claire Wang is a London-based language education expert and the Founder of LingoClass, the city’s leading school for Chinese, Japanese, and Korean. Since founding LingoClass in 2018, she has helped hundreds of students develop a deep passion for Asian languages and cultures through her engaging, student-centered approach. With over a decade of international teaching experience in Taiwan, Canada, and the UK, Claire specializes in the Communicative Language Teaching (CLT) approach, which emphasizes real-world interaction and meaningful communication. Her classes are known for being dynamic, practical, and deeply culturally immersive. Claire holds a postgraduate degree in Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language from SOAS University of London. In addition to leading LingoClass, she is also a Senior Lecturer in Chinese Language, Arts and Culture at the University of the Arts London, where she integrates language learning with broader cultural and artistic perspectives. Corey Andrew Pop Culture Commentator Corey Andrew is a pop culture commentator based in New York City, New York. Corey co-hosts the celebrity gossip podcast "Naughty but Nice" with Rob. He is also the former host and producer of "Motivational Mondays," a leadership podcast presented by the National Society of Leadership and Success, which ranked in the top 5% on Spotify. A respected voice in career readiness and leadership development, Corey teaches audiences how to turn their stories into personal brands that open doors to opportunity. He is represented by a leading literary agency. He is completing his debut book—a collection of the most valuable leadership lessons he's learned from interviews with figures such as Olympic legend Greg Louganis, Hint Water founder Kara Goldin, Food Network star Chef Robert Irvine, Peloton fitness leader Robin Arzón, Broadway icon Melba Moore, Admiral William H. McRaven, and more. He is a sought-after pop culture expert and a Grammy voting member who has appeared on NewsNation, FOX5 New York, Merit TV, and HLN, and has been quoted in Forbes. Mira Lazine LGBTQ+ Journalist Mira Lazine is a journalist specializing in LGBTQ+ issues, politics, science, and gaming based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Mira is a transfeminine writer acclaimed for providing a methodical, accurate, and investigative slant to the world of queer reporting. She has been featured in multiple outlets, including The Washington Post, Erin in the Morning, Truthout, The Advocate, LGBTQ Nation, Assigned Media, Cincinnati Citybeat, The Buckeye Flame, Autostraddle, Strange Matters Magazine, and Discover Magazine. She is a contributor to the Trans Data Library, an authoritative site documenting the actions of opponents to transgender care. She is also a contributor to journalist Erin Reed's legislation tracker, documenting pieces of LGBTQ+ related legislation as they emerge across the country. Mira attended Keystone College. Frank DiLuzio Literary Content and Podcasting Expert Frank DiLuzio is a literary content and podcasting expert based in Western Massachusetts. With a passion for reading that developed during childhood, Frank has continued to nurture his passion for reading and writing as a freelance editor and writer. In 2020, he began hosting his podcast Thrillers and Tea, sharing his thoughts on his recent reads and other book-related topics. Frank also shares his book reviews and recommendations on social media @franks_fiction to over 18k followers. Frank has a degree in Psychology from Western New England University. Emmi Kohout Accent and Speech Coach Emmi Kohout is an American Accent and Speech Coach based in Spain. After having her own accent training journey in Spanish, her second language, back in 2007, she was inspired to create the most convenient, motivating, and personalized audio-based American accent training program possible. Emmi has been teaching languages and coaching clients for over 16 years. Her specialty is helping audio lovers fit American accent training into their busy lives and packed schedules so they can make their words sound as awesome as their brilliant ideas. Emmi knows that an "accent" is just when someone uses the sounds, movements, patterns, and melodies of their first language when speaking another. In her audio courses and coaching programs, she uses a proven, systematic method to make her clients hear sounds and features of American English that they've never noticed before, and apply to them to their own speech, using them to their advantage. She believes that accent & speech training should be accessible to anyone who wants to improve their English communication to reach their goals. Emmi graduated with both a BA and an MA in Spanish from University of California, Irvine. Linda Chau Public Relations Specialist Linda Chau is a Public Relations Specialist and the CEO and Founder of PAAPR Agency (Public Attention And Public Relations). With over a decade of experience, she specializes in strategic planning, brand storytelling, press communication, and reputation management. Linda holds a BA from The University of California, Riverside and has been featured in AdAge, Austin Business Journal, and more. Jack Wallace Celebrity Dialect Coach Jack Wallace is a Dialect Coach from the UK now based in Hollywood, California. Jack specializes in on-set coaching, production prep, and helping professional actors to develop idiolects (specific people's voices) for their characters. Jack’s clients include Sony, Netflix, Lifetime, Universal and VHR. He has also been featured as an industry expert in ET, Buzzfeed, Insider, CNN, and more. Jack has a Master’s in Professional Voice Practice from The Royal Birmingham Conservatoire and is a certified One-Voice Practitioner. Melanie Whitney Mindful Communication Coach Melanie Whitney is a mindful communication coach based in Los Angeles, California. As the founder of Mindless to Mindful, she helps professionals and organizations embody conscious leadership by transforming the way they communicate. She blends her background as a Communication Studies Professor with expertise in mindfulness, emotional intelligence, and subconscious reprogramming. Through this integrative approach, Melanie teaches people how to express themselves with clarity, compassion, and confidence. Through her programs, workshops, and corporate trainings, she equips teams with practical tools to reduce conflict, build trust, and cultivate resilient, connected cultures. Alejandra Alfonzo Language Instructor Alejandra Alfonzo is a Language Instructor based in Roseland, New Jersey. She runs her own language tutoring business, Spanish Con Ale. She teaches both English and Spanish, offering online private and group classes tailored to meet her clients' personal and professional goals while making the learning experience fun. Alejandra has been a language teacher since 2011 and is committed to exploring the challenges and rewards that come with learning a new language with her students. Spanish Con Ale offers personalized learning sessions, private lesson packages, and Cafecito Con Ale, a language exchange membership where members have the opportunity to meet and socialize with others while improving their language skills. Alejandra is a certified spanish teacher, holds a Education Master's in teaching English as a Foreign Language from University of Carabobo, and received a BA in Modern Languages from Arturo Michelena University and a certificate in Teaching Spanish as a Foreign Language. Amanda Boyce Certified Accent Specialist Amanda Boyce is a Certified Australian English Teacher, Accent Specialist, and Founder of Aussie English with Amanda, an online learning platform dedicated to helping international students and professional migrants master Australian English. With over 9,000 classes taught since 2020, she specializes in pronunciation, accent training, and cultural communication. Amanda offers personalised 1:1 coaching, group classes, and self-paced courses, including Mastering Australian English and The Aussie Slang Crash Course. She is a certified accent specialist from The Accent Channel and holds a Level 5 TEFL Diploma with additional training in Teaching English Online & One-to-One from The TEFL Academy. Amanda also hosts Chinwag Tuesdays, a podcast featuring ESL teachers, migrants, and language learners discussing language challenges, cultural insights, and personal experiences. Lana Harris Journalist and Former News Anchor Lana Harris is a journalist and former news anchor based in Atlanta, Georgia. With over 10 years in the broadcast industry, Lana’s experience spans reporting, corresponding, anchoring, and multimedia journalism. She has worked at several different news stations, including News 19 WLTX in Columbia, South Carolina, First Coast News in Jacksonville, Florida, WCNC-TV in Charlotte, North Carolina, and Atlanta News First in Atlanta, Georgia. Most recently, she has explored social media news coverage sharing helpful explanations, takes, and updates of news stories on Instagram and TikTok. Lana has a degree in broadcast journalism from the University of Georgia. Gale McCreary Communications Coach Gale McCreary is the Founder and Chief Coordinator of SpeechStory, a nonprofit organization focused on improving communication skills in youth. She was previously a Silicon Valley CEO and President of a Toastmasters International chapter. She has been recognized as Santa Barbara Entrepreneurial Woman of the Year and received Congressional recognition for providing a Family-Friendly work environment. She has a BS in Biology from Stanford University. Adrienne Raphel Writer and Crossword Puzzle Expert Adrienne Raphel is a writer and crossword puzzle expert based in Brooklyn, New York. She is the author of Thinking Inside the Box: Adventures with Crosswords and the Puzzling People Who Can't Live Without Them (Penguin Press, 2020), named an Editor's Choice by the New York Times Book Review; What Was It For (Rescue Press, 2017), winner of the Rescue Press Black Box Poetry Prize; and, most recently, Our Dark Academia (Rescue Press, 2022). She is currently on the English faculty at CUNY-Baruch College. She also teaches graduate-level poetry and nonfiction with the Mountainview MFA program of Southern New Hampshire University, the Writer's Foundry MFA program of St. Joseph's University, and the Berlin Writers' Workshop. Her essays and poetry appear in The New York Times, The New Yorker, The Paris Review, The Atlantic, Poetry, and many other publications. Raphel has been awarded a Visiting Fellowship from the American Library in Paris and named a James Merrill House Writer-in-Residence; she has been a featured speaker at events such as the National Book Festival at the Library of Congress and the Edinburgh Book Festival. She serves as a mentor with the Periplus collective. Raphel holds a PhD in English from Harvard University, an MFA in poetry from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, and an AB from Princeton University. Amy Thiessen, PCC, SEP, MACP Somatic Voice and Communications Coach Amy Thiessen is a somatic voice and communications coach based in Alberta, Canada. With over 20 years of experience in the arts and wellness industries, Amy is a multifaceted coach and facilitator who bridges the intelligence of body, spirit, and mind with the power of authentic self-expression. As the founder of In Resonance Coaching, she guides individuals, groups, and organizations to elevate the power inherent in each person through the guiding message that Every Voice Matters. Integrating somatic experiencing, vocal embodiment, and communication coaching, Amy supports clients to express themselves and move through conflict—inner and outer—with confidence, skill, and grace in their work, relationships, and creative lives. She has coached hundreds of clients and shared her music and facilitation across the globe, including appearances at Wanderlust Whistler, TEDx Calgary, the Mind-Body Therapy Summit, and the Bali Spirit Festival. Amy is a certified Somatic Experiencing Practitioner and Professional Certified Coach (ICF). She also holds a Master of Clinical Psychology from Antioch University. Han Mosby Social Media Content Consultant Han Mosby is a social media content consultant based in Oxfordshire, England. After 1.5 years as the marketing manager for a female coach, Han founded Social Han in 2022 and has since helped amplify hundreds of female coaches and service providers. She specializes in social media management, digital advertising, and inbound marketing, with a focus on helping clients create content that sells their services on Instagram. Han has a bachelor’s degree in fine arts from Bath Spa University. Elaine Swann Lifestyle and Etiquette Coach Elaine Swann is a lifestyle and etiquette coach based in Carlsbad, CA. With over 22 years of experience, Elaine is the founder of The Swann School of Protocol, an etiquette training institute offering courses and classes for children, teens, college students, and adults. In 2017, she launched a certification program to train individuals in the areas of etiquette and operate their own etiquette consulting businesses, and a licensing program that allows people to operate as The Swann School of Protocol in their city. Elaine has written multiple books on etiquette, Girls Have Style (2005), Let Crazy Be Crazy (2014), and most recently, Elaine Swann’s Book of Modern Etiquette (2025). She has been referred to as the Emily Post of the Digital Age by the New York Times, and shares her advice on The Today Show, Access Hollywood, CNN, The Sherri Show, The Jennifer Hudson Show, and more. Jamila Musayeva International Etiquette Consultant, Author and Youtube Educator Jamila Musayeva is an International Etiquette Consultant, Author and Youtube Educator based in Azerbaijan. Through her work, she is dedicated to promoting elegance, cultural awareness, and refined living. Her YouTube channel, where she focuses on etiquette and personal development skills, boasts over 1 million subscribers. Through her best-selling books, online courses, and widely followed YouTube channel, Jamila shares insights on etiquette, hosting, and cross-cultural traditions. Her expertise has been featured in numerous notable magazines and media outlets, including Forbes, Arabian Business, Daily Mail, Cosmopolitan, USA Today, HuffPost, and many more. She speaks over five languages and is continually expanding her linguistic repertoire. With a mission to inspire individuals to embody sophistication and grace in everyday life, she continues to be a leading voice in the world of modern etiquette. She graduated summa cum laude from The George Washington University, majoring in International Relations with double minors in History and Sociology, and later obtained a Master’s degree from the College of Europe, Brugge, specializing in European Administrative and Political Studies. Jules Hirst Etiquette Coach Jules Hirst is an Etiquette Coach and founder of Etiquette Consulting, Inc. based in Culver City, California. Through her work, Jules has been empowering individuals in social skills, leadership, and confidence through the lens of etiquette and helping her clients to feel comfortable in any situation since 2006. Jules conducts lectures, workshops, seminars, and webinars for business professionals, young adults, and teens. Her instruction covers topics like networking, dining, & social etiquette, understanding cultural differences, professional image, making genuine connections, and more. Jules is the co-author of the book, Power of Civility, which provides tools to boost social intelligence and build cultural competence,and the Technical Editor of Modern Etiquette for Dummies.  She has partnered with a number of universities including UC Berkeley, UCLA, and USC, bringing her university etiquette seminars to college students. She has also appeared on NBC Nightly News, ABC World News, Bravo T.V., the New York Times, HGTV, and more. Brianna Rojao Social Media Consultant Brianna Rojao is a social media consultant based in Lodi, New Jersey. With over 4 years of experience, Brianna is the founder of Socially Bri Media. She specializes in helping ambitious brands show up online with clarity and confidence and is known for curated strategy, interactive graphics, and content that builds real connections. Brianna offers a variety of services, including full social media management, strategy sessions, content planning, audits, and 1:1 intensives. She is currently pursuing her bachelor's in Business Administration. Lydia Stevens Author & Developmental Editor Lydia Stevens is the author of the Hellfire Series and the Ginger Davenport Escapades. She is a Developmental Editor and Writing Coach through her company "Creative Content Critiquing and Consulting." She also co-hosts a writing podcast on the craft of writing called "The REDink Writers." With over ten years of experience, she specializes in writing fantasy fiction, paranormal fiction, memoirs, and inspirational novels. Lydia holds a BA and MA in Creative Writing and English from Southern New Hampshire University. Christine Ferrera Etiquette Coach Christine Ferrera is an etiquette coach based in Fontana, California. With over 12 years of experience, she is the founder of Polished Message Etiquette (PME), a modern training platform focused on Communication, Image & Style, and Comprehensive Etiquette. Christine works with professionals, college students, youth leaders, and community organizations to teach real-world etiquette and professional presence. She offers coaching through formal presentations, interactive workshops, and one-on-one sessions, both in person and virtually. Her speaking engagements include California State University, Fullerton, as well as community collaborations with the Miss Fontana Pageant & Leadership Program, Girl Scouts of America, and Redlands Kids' Connection. Juan Diego Balam Spanish Language Coach Juan Diego Balam is a Spanish language coach from Mexico. With over 7 years of experience, Juan Diego is the founder of SpanisHacks, helping Spanish learners to achieve fluency and confidence in just a few months. Juan emphasizes conversational speaking and acquiring the language in a comprehensible input environment as the keys to reaching fluency quickly. He offers language coaching programs through SpanisHacks, and shares additional tips and insights on social media to over 230k followers. Jule Kim Executive Leadership Expert Jule Kim is an executive leadership coach based in Edmonds, WA. With over 5 years of experience, Jule is the founder of Seattle Executive Coach, providing coaching that helps executives overcome imposter syndrome and build confidence to become strong, trusted leaders. Jule is an ICF Professional Certified Coach, specializing in communication, leadership development, executive presence, emotional intelligence, career purpose, and more. She is a public speaker, workshop facilitator, and author who released a portable deck, Self-Love Affirmations & Reflections, that can be incorporated into a daily ritual and invites intentional reflection and encourages positive self-talk. Mark Fennell Life & Business Coach Mark Fennell is a mindset and performance coach based in Ireland. With over 20 years of experience, Mark is renowned for helping individuals and business owners unlock clarity and achieve long-term success. His work combines evidence-based high-performance coaching with strategy and clarity, helping clients turn pressure into purpose and achieve sustained results. Mark is the bestselling author of the book Break Through and is a regular contributor on TV, radio, and many podcasts and media outlets. He has worked with over 250 organizations, including BBC, Newstalk, PwC, Virgin Media, and more. He has also coached over 1,000 one-to-ones and has over half a million followers on social media. As a member of the International Coaching Federation (ICF) and a QQI-qualified professional, Mark has earned a reputation as one of Ireland’s most trusted leading coaches. Internet Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Expert and Content Creator Internet Anthropology is a social media account that discusses pop culture phenomena and social media trends through the lens of anthropological theory on TikTok and Instagram. Carrera Kurnik, the expert behind Internet Anthropology, is a cultural anthropologist who specializes in social media trends, trend forecasting, and foresight strategy. For the past 6 years, Carrera has been working with companies like Doneger Group, Future Snoops, and sparks & honey as a futures strategist, taking an anthropological approach to tracking and predicting cultural trends. Carrera has also been interviewed by CNN as an expert in trends and culture. With an M.A. in Sociocultural Anthropology from Columbia University, Carrera’s work engages the anthropology of the future as a core research area. Keri Safran Performer & Accent Coach Keri Safran is a bi-coastal Actress and Accent, Dialect, and Acting Coach based in the US. She is an Alum of the Groundlings Sunday Company and a certified Knight-Thompson Speechwork teacher. As a coach, Keri offers private dialect coaching and accent reduction assistance, acting and audition coaching, and regularly teaches Accent Webinars and Intensives. She also offers tons of free accent tips on her Instagram, @kerisafran, and created a free accent guide called 8 Steps to Learning an Accent Fast! She has coached characters on a variety of TV shows and films, including Star Trek, Fargo, Grey’s Anatomy, and The Night Agent. Her most recent performances include a guest star role on Law & Order: SVU and in the 2024 Tribeca Film Festival’s Lake George. She last appeared on the NY stage in the revival of Morning’s at Seven. Belinda Weaver Copywriter and Copy Coach Belinda Weaver is a copywriter and copy coach based in California. With over 15 years of copywriting experience, Belinda is the founder of Copywrite Matters and works with aspiring and working copywriters to avoid burnout and create financial stability. She has created a signature copywriting program, The Copywriting Inkubator, to help anyone learn to write copy, which has been completed by over 200 copywriters. Belinda also co-hosted the popular copywriting podcast, Hot Copy, and has been featured on Copyblogger, Business Insider, Amy Porterfield’s pod and The Copywriter Club. Belinda has a master’s degree in marketing from Deakin University, and previous career experience working in the IT industry and in marketing for SAS companies. Sagar Rawat Public Speaking Coach Sagar Rawat is a public speaking coach based in Australia. With over 7 years of experience, Sagar is the founder of Public Speaking Domination. He specializes in helping individuals conquer their fear of public speaking through a step-by-step, results-oriented approach. Sagar also shares content on social media around public speaking to a global audience, with over 196k followers on TikTok. Patrick Bateman Accent Coach Patrick Bateman is an American Accent Coach and Podcaster based in Monterrey, Mexico. With over 7 years of experience, Patrick offers custom lessons coaching the American accent habit development to clients and is the author of the American Pronunciation Handbook. He also hosts the AccenTraining Podcast, with over 250 episodes serving as an open resource for non-native English speakers learning the American accent. Brenden Kumarasamy Executive Communication Expert Brenden Kumarasamy is an executive communication and public speaking coach based in Montreal, Canada. With over 6 years of experience, Brenden is the founder of MasterTalk, a coaching business where he specializes in working with executives and IT professionals to help them master the art of communication. He intentionally designed his coaching service to empower the best executives and coaches, serving hundreds of clients from companies like Salesforce, Amazon, IBM, Morgan Stanley, Blue Cross, Deloitte, Verizon, and more. His YouTube channel MasterTalk has 45,000 subscribers, 2+ million views, and over 200 video lessons providing educational content on public speaking, communication, and relationship building. Brenden has a bachelor’s degree in Accountancy from Concordia University. Heather Morrison Public Speaking Coach and Broadcaster Heather Morrison is a public speaking coach and broadcaster based in Saskatchewan, Canada. Heather is the president and founder of Deliver Your Best, working with clients around the world to help them overcome their fear and improve their public speaking. In 2025, she received the New Business of the Year award from Women Entrepreneurs of Saskatchewan. Heather also has extensive experience as a radio host and sideline reporter, providing local and national coverage on platforms such as CBC, TSN and ESPNU. She has a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in acting from the University of Saskatchewan and has worked as an actress, producer, playwright, and director for over a decade as well. Mansour Mansouri Communication Coach and English Professor Mansour Mansouri is a communication coach and English professor based in Quito, Ecuador. With over 17 years of experience working with students, Mansour is passionate about helping people improve their communication skills. He specializes in English language teaching, both ESL and EFL, and nonverbal communication and body language, and has worked with students in-person and virtually from all over the world. Mansour creates content @ent.bodylanguage to share helpful tips and strategies for leveling up your nonverbal and business communication. He also has extensive experience teaching English as a foreign language at several universities, currently teaching at the International University of Ecuador. Mansour has a master’s degree in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) from the Universidad San Francisco de Quito. Francesca Graziella Literary Expert and Content Creator Francesca Graziella is a literary expert and content creator based in Florida. With over a decade of experience reviewing thousands of titles and building online reading communities, Francesca is also the founder of Under the Covers Book Blog and host of the Reading Under the Covers Podcast. Through these platforms, she has been recommending romance, fantasy, and mystery books to readers since 2011. Under the Covers Book Blog alone boasts over 4 million views and has featured 500+ authors. Francesca is passionate about helping readers find their next favorite escape and discover new authors across genres. Kayla Dean Copywriting and Brand Strategy Expert Kayla Dean is a copywriting and brand strategy expert based in Palm Beach, Florida. With over 7 years of experience, Kayla is the senior copywriter and messaging strategist at The Literary Co. Her specialties include website copywriting, brand messaging strategy, messaging guidelines, marketing, online small business, and creative entrepreneurship. Kayla has a master’s degree in English Literature from the University of Nevada - Las Vegas. Mary Erickson, PhD PhD in Communication & Society, University of Oregon Mary Erickson is a Visiting Assistant Professor at Western Washington University. Mary received her PhD in Communication and Society from the University of Oregon in 2011. She is a member of the Modern Language Association, the National Communication Association, and the Society for Cinema and Media Studies. Adrian Lin American Accent Coach Adrian Lin is an accent coach and course creator at Accent Amazing. With over 5 years of coaching experience, Adrian offers 1:1 coaching and video courses, and has helped hundreds of students from 40+ countries and 25+ different native languages speak with more confidence in their accents. Adrian has a BA in Linguistics from the University of Pennsylvania, where he focused on phonology, phonetics, and dialectology and was a founding member of the Penn Linguistics Society, as well as accent coaching certification from The Accent Channel. Adrian has given talks and workshops at international language conferences and on podcasts. Adrian is passionate about language education and is conversational in 8 languages (B1 or higher level), which helps him create language-specific content and teaching material, especially for Slavic and Chinese language speakers. Luke Nicholson British Accent Coach Luke Nicholson is a British accent coach based in London with over a decade of experience helping English learners communicate more clearly. Luke lectures at University College London's Summer Course in English Phonetics and is a member of the International Phonetic Association. In 2012, he founded Improve Your Accent to address the lack of high-quality British English pronunciation materials. He has taught students from 90 countries and has been featured in media such as BBC Radio London, Times Radio, and The Evening Standard. In 2017, Luke was awarded IPSE's UK Freelancer of the Year, and in 2020, he received YouTube's Silver Creator Award. With a strong online presence, Luke has 170K YouTube subscribers and 158K Instagram followers. In 2021, his pronunciation course reached the finals of the British Council ELTons Awards. Luke's paper "Teaching vowels physically" was published as the lead article in an issue of the Voice and Speech Review. He is an enthusiastic language learner and created funetics.com, a site offering phonetics resources for a variety of languages. Luke has a BA in German and Italian Studies from the University of Birmingham and the International Phonetic Association Certificate from the University College London. Trash Pickins Pop Culture and Media Analysis Content Creators Trash Pickins is a media critique YouTube channel and content studio, known for its cultural commentary, deep dives, and balanced takes on pop culture’s wildest trends, most viral moments, and trashy media. Trash Pickins specializes in viral internet trends, movie and TV reviews, and meme culture. The creative minds behind Trash Pickins are Lisa, Sara, and Frank. Lisa is a professional writer and has a PhD in Communication from UC Santa Barbara. She focuses on media literacy, critical analysis, intersectional critique, and reality TV. Sara is a professional artist and video producer, and received a degree in fine art and animation. She specializes in internet trends, focusing on memes, online debates, and influencer news. Frank is an entrepreneur and has a degree in computer science; he specializes in nerd culture, fantasy, sci-fi, and anything featuring birds. Charlie March Literary Editor and Writer Charlie March is a literary editor and writer based in Edinburgh. In 2022, Charlie founded The Plottery, working with editors, beginner writers, and other coaches with the goal of helping anyone to write a book worth reading and raving about. Charlie has created 3 intuitive courses that cover mastering the art of prose, perfecting outlining, and building confidence. She has also created helpful resources for writers, including templates and extensive e-books covering writing theory, world-building, and character development. Charlie also published her first book, "Finish Your First Novel: A No-Bull Guide to Actually Completing Your First Draft" in 2023, under her previous pen name, Char Anna. She's the host of The Plotcast and shares additional tips and insights on her YouTube channel, The Plottery. She has a BA in Filmmaking & Screenwriting and an MA in Creative Writing. Luis de la Torre Spanish Teacher Luis de la Torre is a Spanish teacher based in South Bend, Indiana. With over 7 years of experience, Luis is the founder of ESSLINGUA, an online Spanish language learning platform. ESSLINGUA has provided over 3,500 lessons and 1,500 training hours, offering personalized instruction that combines traditional methods with the latest innovations in language teaching. Luis is currently working as a Spanish teacher at a private institute, with previous experience teaching middle school history and creative literature. He has a bachelor’s degree in political science, and is pursuing a master’s degree in Spanish teaching in multiple contexts. Megan Maclaine Professional Writer and Fiction Coach Megan Maclaine is a professional writer and fiction coach based in Orlando, FL. A professional writer since 2017, Megan has published poetry, short fiction, and journalism, and has written three novel-length manuscripts. Her short story “Lightning on the Lake” was short-listed for the 2021 Aestas Short Story competition. In 2021, she became a writing instructor, using her experience to create a method for organizing the writing process so other writers can more easily finish their books. Megan offers writers courses, workshops, group coaching, and 1:1 coaching. She has an English degree from the University of Toronto and a graduate certificate in Creative Writing from Humber College. Alex Cattoni Digital Marketing and Copywriting Expert Alex Cattoni is a digital marketing and copywriting expert based in Vancouver, CA. With over 17 years of experience in marketing and copywriting, Alex is the founder of Copy Posse, where she is on a mission to redefine modern marketing with empathy and humanity at the center. In 2019, she started her YouTube channel to teach frustrated freedom seekers, stuck side hustlers, and passionate business owners how to make more money through modern marketing and messaging strategies. Through her social media, Alex has helped over 500,000 people around the world, teaching them how to start a creative side hustle, build a personal brand, and monetize their message. She was named Marketer of the Year by DigitalMarketer in 2022, was voted #1 most popular copywriter in 2023, and received the Game Changer Award at the Women of Inspiration Awards in 2024. She has been featured in Forbes, Mindvalley, Foundr, StoryBrand, and more. Amy Quichiz Queer Culture and Sexuality Expert Amy Quichiz is a queer culture and sexuality expert based in Los Angeles, CA. Amy articulates theories and personal experiences into writing pieces that cover various topics such as whiteness, radical self-love from brown girls, mental disabilities in Latinx households, Latinx body issues, borderland identities, and radical queer love. She shares knowledge through radical storytelling and creates workshops for various communities on Instagram. She is also the Founder of Veggie Mijas, a women of color collective that highlights the importance of veganism through the lens of those with marginalized identities. Her work has been recognized by numerous platforms such as The New York Times, Bustle, Bon Vogue India, i-D, Self Magazine, Mic, and VegNews.  Amy received her bachelor’s degree at Syracuse University, majoring in Women’s and Gender Studies and Sociology, and received her Master's Degree at American University on Ethics, Peace, and Human Rights, concentrating in Human Rights and Global Environmental Justice. Diya Chaudhuri, PhD PhD in Creative Writing, Georgia State University Diya Chaudhuri holds a PhD in Creative Writing (specializing in Poetry) from Georgia State University. She has over 5 years of experience as a writing tutor and instructor for both the University of Florida and Georgia State University. Madeleine Flamiano wikiHow Staff Writer Madeleine Flamiano is an Editing Fellow at wikiHow based in Berkeley, California, as well as a Team Organizer, Copy Editor, and Movie Critic for Incluvie. Madeleine has 12 years of experience in literacy advocacy and the creative arts that span tutoring, teaching, writing, public relations, and non-profit support. She has penned seven novels under a pseudonym and loves all escapist genres, from cozy fantasies to hard-boiled sci-fi. Her professional path started at NaNoWriMo, where she scripted and hosted a series on worldbuilding. Madeleine graduated from Mills College with a B.A. in English with a concentration in Literature and a Minor in Philosophy. Kaili Meyer Copywriter and Brand Strategist Kaili Meyer is a copywriter and brand strategist based in Phoenix, AZ. With over 8 years of experience, Kaili’s work blends journalism, marketing, and sales. After graduating, she worked as an apprentice for a national magazine at the Meredith Corporation and then went on to work as a thought capital writer in institutional investing. In 2019, she founded her company Reveal Studio Co., and has since served over 350 clients, delivering bold, creative, and intentional copy. In addition to working with a diverse range of clients, including brand designers, lawyers, photographers, agencies, developers, and more, she also creates copywriting templates for the web, sales pages, and emails. Kaili has a Bachelor of Science degree in journalism and mass communications from Iowa State University. Kamryn Reynolds Communication Coach Kamryn Reynolds is a communication coach based in Tampa Bay, FL. With over 2 years of experience, Kamryn is the youngest Executive Director in BNI history. He is also the founder of Articulate Advantage, helping professionals speak with power, clarity, and confidence. Kamryn specializes in keynotes and trainings for high-end hotels and resorts, and is known for his high energy and practical frameworks. He has a bachelor’s degree in business administration and management from the University of South Florida. Laura Windsor Etiquette Coach Laura Windsor is an etiquette coach based in London, UK. With nearly 10 years of experience, Laura is the founder of the Laura Windsor Etiquette Academy and has been dubbed the Queen of Etiquette. She specializes in cross-cultural communication skills, etiquette, protocol, and personal presentation, and serves as a trusted advisor to numerous international Royal Families, high-profile celebrities, private households, and global businesses. Laura was honored with the Award for Entrepreneurship in Etiquette and Protocol at the historic House of Lords in London, and was recently appointed a Queen Elizabeth II Commonwealth Trust Leader. She regularly features on television, radio, and in print media in the UK and internationally, is a sought-after commentator for the BBC, and was an on-set consultant for Netflix’s Bridgerton. Her formal etiquette training was conducted under the guidance of a former member of the Royal Household of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. She was also educated at Downe House and attended the Lucie Clayton finishing school in London. Toni Purvis Etiquette and Professional Presence Coach Toni Purvis is an etiquette and professional presence coach with offices in Houston, TX and Washington, DC. With over 15 years of consulting experience, she is the Founder of Paradigm One, which specializes in coaching, workshops, and professional development program planning for Fortune companies, nonprofit organizations, and schools. She is also the founder of The School of Disruptive Etiquette, which offers modern etiquette and soft skills courses and coaching to help young adults learn confidence, professionalism, and navigate their careers, relationships, and life. Toni previously worked as the Assistant Director of Career Coaching at the George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs and has also served as the Associate Director of MBA Student Engagement at the GW School of Business. As Associate Director of Executive Programs, Toni managed multiple career development programs for Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), creating customized leadership programming for senior leaders at major companies like Google, JP Morgan Chase, American Express, and many others. Toni graduated summa cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and Sociology from Spelman College. She also obtained a Master of Arts in Christian Leadership from Fuller Theological Seminary and completed her M.B.A. at The George Washington University. Ronnie Ramos English Language Teacher Ronnie Ramos is an English language teacher. With over 15 years of teaching experience, Ronnie provides lessons in pronunciation, grammar, vocabulary, slang, spelling, and more to help anyone improve their confidence with speaking English. She shares her lessons and insights on YouTube @engvidRonnie to over 4.8 million subscribers. In addition, she offers private classes with the option to focus on conversation or accent reduction, IELTS and CELPIP exam preparation, writing workshops, and kids' classes. Ronnie is also the author of the book, The Magic of Teaching English, written for aspiring ESL teachers, which was published in 2022. Rachel Scoggins, PhD PhD in Literary Studies, Georgia State University Rachel Scoggins is a Visiting Assistant Professor of English at Lander University. Rachel's work has been presented at the South Atlantic Modern Language Association and the Georgia International Conference on Information Literacy. She received her PhD in Literary Studies from Georgia State University in 2016. Inga Aksamit Travel Journalist Inga Aksamit is a travel writer, photographer, author, and outdoor educator with more than 10 years of experience. She has published two books and has written in extensive magazines. She is a member of the Bay Area Travel Writers and the Redwood Writers, writing organizations based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Jamie Korsmo, PhD PhD in English, Georgia State University Jamie Korsmo is a teacher, writer, and editor based in Paris, France. With over 8 years of teaching experience, Jamie currently works at the University of Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines. Before this, she completed her advanced teaching fellowship at Georgia State University. Jamie has a Ph.D. in English from Georgia State University. Sarah Valentine Accent Coach and Actor Sarah Valentine is an Accent & Dialect Coach and Actor based in the UK. With over 35 years in the TV and Film industry, Sarah has also worked as a Casting Director, AD and Cast Coordinator, and an agent for actors. As an accent coach, she is passionate about helping her clients succeed by teaching accents to actors and voice actors, and helping with accent reduction. She has created a unique “Valentine Method” and the ebook 5 Accents Every Actor Needs to Master, to help her clients learn their accent quickly, in a fun and relaxed environment. Known as the Accent Queen on TikTok, she has over 950k followers and can be found at @actorsaccentcoach. As an actor, Sarah has appeared in 6 feature films, 7 TV series, 8 plays, and 100’s of commercials, and is best known for her roles in Top of the Lake and The Insatiable Moon. In 2024, she released The Actor’s Guide: An Insider’s Manual to Launching Your Acting Career, filled with essential skills, strategies and secrets that every aspiring actor should know. Lynn Smith Media and Executive Communication Coach Lynn Smith is a Media and Executive Communication Coach. Vinita Nair Communication Coach Vinita Nair is a communication coach based in New York City, NY. After nearly 20 years as a news correspondent and anchor for CBS, NBC, and ABC, Vinita transitioned to coaching in 2021, specializing in communications consulting, media coaching, and communications planning and execution. She is a c-suite advisor and works with executives, brand ambassadors, marketing and creative teams, and a variety of clients across multiple industries. Vinita also shares tips, exercises, conversation strategies, and more to over 240k followers on TikTok. Vinita has a bachelor’s degree in journalism from Northwestern University. Danielle McManus, PhD PhD in English Literature, University of California Davis Danielle McManus is a Graduate Adviser in Davis, California. She completed her PhD in English Language and Literature at UC Davis in 2013. James McKenna Copywriter & Producer James McKenna is a Copywriter and Producer in Cincinnati, Ohio. James produces freelance content, including print ads, television commercials, and websites. He has over 15 years of experience in general advertising and marketing for clients such as US Bank, Cintas, and Procter & Gamble. Steve Kelem, PhD Experienced Technical Writer & PhD in Computer Science, University of California Los Angeles Steve Kelem is an experienced technical writer with a PhD in computer science from UCLA. He has over 35 years of professional experience in roles requiring research, writing, and the publication of technical articles, documentation, and patents. He has supervised the technical writing at companies including Xilinx, Adaptive Silicon, and Element CXI. Hunter Rising wikiHow Staff Writer Hunter Rising is a wikiHow Staff Writer based in Los Angeles. He has more than three years of experience writing for and working with wikiHow. Hunter holds a BFA in Entertainment Design from the University of Wisconsin - Stout and a Minor in English Writing. Emily Liu wikiHow Staff Writer Emily Liu graduated from UCLA in 2021 with a B.A. in Classical Civilization, a B.A. in English, and a minor in Cognitive Science. She has over three years of experience working with students from different backgrounds, ages, and academic interests as a writing tutor and instructor, in subjects ranging from the humanities to sciences to creative work, as well as personal statements and other application materials. She works on the content team at wikiHow and is always excited to discover and learn about new topics. Hannah Madden wikiHow Staff Writer Hannah Madden is a writer, editor, and artist currently living in Portland, Oregon. In 2018, she graduated from Portland State University with a B.S. in Environmental Studies. Hannah enjoys writing articles about conservation, sustainability, and eco-friendly products. When she isn’t writing, you can find Hannah working on hand embroidery projects and listening to music. Janice Tieperman wikiHow Staff Writer Janice is a professional and creative writer who has worked at wikiHow since 2019. With both a B.A. and M.A. in English from East Stroudsburg University, she has a passion for writing a wide variety of content for anyone and everyone. In her free time, you can find her working on a new crochet pattern, listening to true crime podcasts, or tackling a new creative writing project. Amy Bobinger, BA wikiHow Staff Writer Amy Bobinger holds a B.A. in English from Mississippi College and has spent over eight years helping people make sense of complicated topics. Since she began her career in 2016, she’s honed her skills in storytelling, content management, and editorial strategy. Amy loves turning complex information into something clear and useful, knowing that the right words can make a real difference in readers' lives. Eric McClure wikiHow Staff Writer Eric McClure is an editing fellow at wikiHow where he has been editing, researching, and creating content since 2019. A former educator and poet, his work has appeared in Carcinogenic Poetry, Shot Glass Journal, Prairie Margins, and The Rusty Nail. His digital chapbook, The Internet, was also published in TL;DR Magazine. He was the winner of the Paul Carroll award for outstanding achievement in creative writing in 2014, and he was a featured reader at the Poetry Foundation’s Open Door Reading Series in 2015. Eric holds a BA in English from the University of Illinois at Chicago, and an MEd in secondary education from DePaul University. Amber Crain wikiHow Staff Writer Amber Crain has been a member of wikiHow’s writing staff for the last six years. She graduated from the University of Houston where she majored in Classical Studies and minored in Painting. Before coming to wikiHow, she worked in a variety of industries including marketing, education, and music journalism. She's been a radio DJ for 10+ years and currently DJs a biweekly music program on the award-winning internet radio station DKFM. Her work at wikiHow supports her lifelong passion for learning and her belief that knowledge belongs to anyone who desires to seek it. Maggie Stiefvater New York Times Bestselling Author Maggie Stiefvater is a New York Times bestselling author based in Virginia. With over a decade of experience, she specializes in writing young adult fiction. Maggie is best known for the trilogy she wrote, The Wolves of Mercy Falls. She has spent more than 40 combined weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list. Maggie also published The Scorpio Races, which received 5-star reviews and was named a Michael L. Printz Award Honor Book. She holds a BA in History from Mary Washington College. Madeleine Criglow wikiHow Staff Writer Madeleine Criglow is a wikiHow Staff writer based in the Pacific Northwest. She has over six years of experience working in copywriting, editing, and journalism. In addition to her work for wikiHow, she writes a monthly film column for Tigard Life and Tualatin Life newspaper.  Madeleine graduated from the University of Puget Sound with a BA in English with an emphasis in Creative Writing. Donna Sarkar Professional Writer Donna Sarkar is a Professional Freelance Writer and Editor based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. She has published work in a variety of newspapers and magazines including Discover Magazine and the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Donna earned her BA in Journalism and Psychology from Marquette University in 2020. Savannah Vold wikiHow Staff Writer Savannah Vold graduated from the University of California at Santa Barbara in 2020, earning her B.A. in English with a specialization in Literature and Culture of Information. Passionate about accessibility and fostering a love for the arts, she started her literary, arts, and culture-based website, The Executant. At wikiHow, Savannah feels fortunate to learn about new and exciting topics daily and is driven to empower anyone, anywhere, by providing accurate and engaging knowledge. Janine Driver Body Language & Nonverbal Communication Expert Janine Driver is a Body Language & Nonverbal Communication Expert. Syndi Seid Global Etiquette and Business Protocol Expert Syndi Seid is a Global Etiquette and Business Protocol Expert. Jeffrey Bogaczyk Communication and Leadership Coach Jeffrey Bogaczyk is a Communication and Leadership Coach. Dr. Marisa G. Franco Friendship and Connection Coach Dr. Marisa G. Franco is a Friendship and Connection Coach. Dean Modah Queer Linguistics Educator and Cultural Commentator Dean Modah is a Queer Linguistics Educator and Cultural Commentator. Caroline Langdon Social Media Strategist Caroline Langdon is a Social Media Strategist. Katelyn Rhoades Social Media Marketer Katelyn Rhoades is a Social Media Marketer. Jacqueline Whitmore Business Etiquette Coach Jacqueline Whitmore is a Business Etiquette Coach. Andréa Jones Social Media Marketer Andréa Jones is a Social Media Marketer. Child Care & Families Moshe Ratson, MFT, PCC Marriage & Family Therapist Moshe Ratson is the Executive Director of spiral2grow Marriage & Family Therapy, a coaching and therapy clinic in New York City. Moshe is an International Coach Federation accredited Professional Certified Coach (PCC). He received his MS in Marriage and Family Therapy from Iona College. Moshe is a clinical member of the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy (AAMFT), and a member of the International Coach Federation (ICF). Wits End Parenting Parenting Specialists Wits End Parenting is a parent-coaching practice based in Berkeley, California specializing in strong-willed, “spirited” children with impulsivity, emotional volatility, difficulty “listening,” defiance, and aggression. Wits End Parenting's counselors incorporate positive discipline that is tailored to each child’s temperament while also providing long-term results, freeing parents from the need to continually re-invent their discipline strategies. Denise Stern Parenting Specialist Denise Stern is a Parenting Specialist and the CEO of Let Mommy Sleep, the country’s leading Baby Nurse and Postpartum Care service. After her own postpartum challenges, Denise started Let Mommy Sleep in 2010 to lend an extra hand to families with newborns. The service started by hiring Baby Nurses and Newborn Caregivers to provide childcare and education to parents during night hours. To this day, Denise and her company specialize in providing nurturing care to newborns and evidence-based education to their parents. Denise was the US Chamber of Commerce Leading Woman-Owned Business in 2013, a Washington FAMILY Magazine Mother of the Year in 2016, and on the elite White House Summit for Working Families hosted by the President and First Lady Obama in 2014. Let Mommy Sleep is the only company in the US that has developed a postpartum care curriculum that has since won a local government contract. Denise continues to be a leader in the in-home newborn care industry by building and maintaining a team of newborn care experts, baby nurses (RN/LPN) and postpartum doulas across the US. She received a BA in Public Relations from North Carolina State University. Allen Wagner, MFT, MA Marriage & Family Therapist Allen Wagner is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist based in Los Angeles, California. After working as a therapist at the Children’s Bureau and Penny Lane Centers, he opened his own practice in 2008. Allen works with both individuals and couples and has 20 years of experience as a therapist. Allen specializes in helping clients improve their relationships, assisting people in managing life transitions, improving communication in all environments, and identifying realistic and positive goals. Alongside his wife Talia Wagner, he authored the book "Married Roommates". He received an MA in Psychology from Pepperdine University and a BA in Film and Creative Writing from the University of Arizona. Elvina Lui, MFT Marriage & Family Therapist Elvina Lui is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist specializing in relationship counseling based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Elvina received her Masters in Counseling from Western Seminary in 2007 and trained under the Asian Family Institute in San Francisco and the New Life Community Services in Santa Cruz. She has over 13 years of counseling experience and is trained in the harm reduction model. Kathy Slattengren, M.Ed. Parent Educator & Coach Kathy Slattengren is a Parent Educator and Coach and the Founder of Priceless Parenting. With over two decades of experience, Kathy specializes in helping parents build strong, loving relationships with their children. She has helped thousands of parents around the world through Priceless Parenting's online classes, presentations, coaching, and books. Kathy holds a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science and Psychology from The University of Minnesota and a Masters degree in Education and Instructional Design from The University of Washington. Kathy is a member of the National Parenting Education Network, the US Alliance to End the Hitting of Children, the International Society for Technology in Education, and a founding member of Parent Learning Link. Priceless Parenting has been featured on ABC News, Komo News, King 5 News, National PTA, Parent Map, and Inspire Me Today. Justin Barnes Senior Home Care Specialist Justin Barnes is a Senior Home Care Specialist and the Co-Owner of Presidio Home Care, a family-owned and operated Home Care Organization based in the Los Angeles, California metro area. Presidio Home Care, which provides non-medical supportive services, was the first agency in the state of California to become a licensed Home Care Organization. Justin has over 10 years of experience in the Home Care field. He has a BS in Technology and Operations Management from the California State Polytechnic University - Pomona. Jami Yaeger Parenting Specialist Jami Yaeger is a Parenting Specialist, Doula, and the Owner of AustinBorn, an online community offering comprehensive and modern education to growing families. With 10 years of experience, Jami specializes in whole family support for pregnancy, birth, postpartum, and parenting. Jami earned her BA in Theatre Performance from San Diego State University and earned her Certification as a Lactation Education Counselor from the University of California, San Diego. She is a Certified Infant and Child CPR Instructor, Birth and Postpartum Doula, and Childbirth Educator. Soren Rosier, PhD Teacher & Education Researcher Soren Rosier is an Education Expert based in Palo Alto, CA. He is the founder of PeerTeach, a platform that empowers students to grow their leadership, confidence, and love of math through AI-powered peer tutoring. Additionally, he is an instructor at the Stanford Graduate School of Education, where he teaches courses on designing impactful tools for learning. Before beginning his PhD, he taught middle school in Oakland, developed teacher training programs, and evaluated the efficacy of popular ed tech products at SRI International. He received his undergraduate degree from Harvard University and a PhD in Learning Sciences & Technology Design at Stanford University. Julie Wright, MFT Parenting & Baby Sleep Specialist Julie Wright is a Marriage and Family Therapist and the co-founder of The Happy Sleeper, which offers sleep consulting and online baby sleep classes. Julie is a licensed psychotherapist specializing in babies, children, and their parents, and the co-author of two best selling parenting books (The Happy Sleeper and Now Say This) published by Penguin Random House. She created the popular Wright Mommy, Daddy and Me program in Los Angeles, California, which provides support and learning for new parents. Julie's work has been mentioned in The New York Times, The Washington Post, and NPR. Julie received her training at the Cedars Sinai Early Childhood Center. Sylvia Rath Parenting Specialist Sylvia Rath is a Parenting Specialist and the Director of Little Village Nursery School in Los Angeles, California. With over 30 years of experience, Sylvia guides parents through the preschool years and beyond by teaching respectful communication and positive discipline methods. Sylvia holds a BA in Psychology and Early Child Development from Antioch University. Before working at Little Village Nursery School, she taught preschool for eight years. Kylee Money Parenting Consultant Kylee Money is a Parenting Consultant and the Founder and CEO of Parenting Made Joyful. Since 2001, Kylee has worked with over 1,000 parents and families on sleep training, behavior management, potty training, and more. She is a contributing writer and board advisory member at Pampers.com, a CBS News Parent Expert, and featured on Fox and Friends and Buy Buy Baby. Kylee also speaks nationally at parenting expos on the subject of sleep training. Julie Matheney, MS, CCC-SLP, CLEC, IBCLC International Board Certified Lactation Consultant Julie Matheney is an International Board Certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC) and the Founder of The LA Lactation Lady, her lactation consulting business based in Los Angeles, California. With over eight years of lactation consulting experience, Julie offers several professional online courses aimed at healthcare providers in lactation and infant feeding. She has also taught several professional courses for BreatfeedLA, The Lactation OT, and various city and state breastfeeding coalitions. Course topics include bottle selection and refusal, and an introduction to speech therapy and lactation. Julie is also a Speech Pathologist, and has provided extensive coursework as part of the Infant Frenectomy Protocol, part of Dr Chelsea Pinto’s professional course that explores the misconceptions around tongue-tie treatment and offers updated research findings on the topic. JoAnn Crohn Parenting Expert and CEO of No Guilt Mom JoAnn Crohn is a parenting expert, certified life coach, speaker, and podcast host based in Chandler, Arizona. With over 11 years of experience, JoAnn is the CEO of No Guilt Mom and is passionate about helping exhausted moms release mom guilt and stress. On her podcast No Guilt Mom, she helps teach moms how to help their kids be more self-sufficient, offers advice on disciplining in a way that teaches kids to think for themselves, and discusses setting boundaries on their own time and lives.  JoAnn is also the author of 2 books, “Me & My Friendships: A Kid’s Guide to Making Friends” and “Drama Free Homework: A Parent’s Guide to Eliminating Homework Battles and Raising Focused Kids”. She has appeared on a variety of parenting podcasts, including 3 in 30: Takeaways for Moms, Shameless Mom Academy, Okayest Moms: The Podcast, and PGish Parenting with Erin Holland. JoAnn has a Bachelor’s degree in Broadcast Journalism and a Master’s degree in Curriculum and Instruction from Arizona State University, and worked previously as a national board certified teacher. Jessie Davidson Child Care Specialist Jessie Davidson is a Child Care Specialist and the CEO and Founder of BabysitPro, which provides online courses for current and aspiring babysitters. Jessie has over 20 years of childcare experience and specializes in best practices for sitters of infants, toddlers, preschoolers, and grade-schoolers. BabysitPro’s courses are unique and age-specific so babysitters can learn detailed information relevant to the children they babysit. Jessie holds a BA in French Studies from Wheaton College and an MA in Visual Anthropology from The University of Southern California. Bianca Solorzano, M.Ed. Infant Development & Montessori Consultant Bianca Solorzano is an Infant Development Specialist, Montessori Consultant, and the Founder of Baby Tour Guide Inc. Through her company, she helps parents, educators, and caregivers optimize baby and toddler development using a Montessori Lens. She does so by providing one-on-one consulting, running her blog, and hosting the Montessori Babies Podcast. With more than 11 years of experience in child development, she specializes in supporting parents in approaches such as purposeful language, environment setup, toys/activities that aid in development, positive redirection and behavior, and directed choice. Bianca holds a BS in Child and Adolescent Development with a focus in Early Childhood Education from California State University, Fullerton, a Masters in Montessori Education from Loyola University Maryland, and the AMI International Montessori Certification from The Montessori Institute of San Diego for children Birth-3 Years. Bianca is also a member of the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). Catherine Palomino, MS Master's Degree, Elementary Education, CUNY Brooklyn College Catherine Palomino is a former Childcare Center Director in New York. She received her MS in Elementary Education from CUNY Brooklyn College in 2010. Rebecca Nguyen, MA International Board Certified Lactation Consultant Rebecca Nguyen is a Certified Lactation Consultant and Childbirth Educator. She runs Family Picnic in Chicago, Illinois with her mother Sue Gottschall, where they teach new parents about childbirth, breastfeeding and child development and education. Rebecca taught preschool through 3rd grade for 10 years, and she received her Master’s Degree in Early Childhood Education from the University of Illinois in 2003. Deanna Dawson-Jesus, CD (DONA) Birth & Postpartum Doula, Childbirth, & Lactation Educator Deanna Dawson-Jesus is a retired Birth and Postpartum Doula, Childbirth, and Lactation Educator based in Danville, California. With over 21 years of experience, Deanna retired as the owner of Birthing Babies - A Celebration of Life in 2023. She was first certified as a birth doula in 2001 and assisted with over 250 births. She has over 5 years of postpartum doula experience and has additional extensive training in Assisted Reproductive Technologies, VBAC support, and Perinatal Loss Support. She is a Certified Birth Doula by DONA International, a certified Lactation Educator with UCLA and CAPPA, has been a HypnoBirthing Practitioner, and taught at Blossom Birth and Family. Giselle Baumet Mindset & Wellness Coach Giselle Baumet is a Mindset & Wellness Coach and the founder of the Neurospiritual Method® based in Orange County, California. With more than 16 years of experience, she specializes in helping neurodivergent women entrepreneurs create abundance without burnout or overdoing. Giselle holds a master’s-level background in Applied Neuroscience and is a certified Somatic Breathwork Practitioner who has helped over 6,000 women through her trusted method. Sarah Siebold, IBCLC, MA International Board Certified Lactation Consultant Sarah Siebold is an International board certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC) and Certified Lactation Educator Counselor (CLEC) based in Los Angeles, California. She runs her own lactation consulting practice called IMMA, where she specializes in emotional support, clinical care, and evidence-based breastfeeding practices. Her editorial work about new motherhood and breastfeeding has been featured in VoyageLA, The Tot, and Hello My Tribe. She completed her clinical lactation training in both private practice and outpatient settings through the University of California, San Diego. She also earned her M.A. in English and American Literature from New York University. Mor Levy Volner, IBCLC, RDN International Board Certified Lactation Consultant Mor Levy Volner is an International Board Certified Lactation Consultant based in Southern California. She earned a BS in Clinical Nutrition from the University of California, Davis in 2009 and finished her Lactation Consultant course from the University of California, San Diego Extension Program in 2013, which included 300 hours of lactation consulting experience from Kaiser Permanente. She also has an MS in Dietetics/Nutrition from the California State University - Northridge in 2014. Kristen Duke Parenting Coach, Event Speaker, and Podcaster Kristen Duke is a parenting coach, event speaker, and podcaster based in Colorado Springs, Colorado. With over 20 years of experience, Kristen specializes in helping high-achieving moms to build trust with and raise their teenagers to thrive. She offers coaching programs, keynote speaking events, workshops, and a supportive online community to teach practical parenting strategies. The TRUSTED Academy, built on the three pillars of confidence, conversation, and connection, delivers a comprehensive, guided program for moms to support and empower them. Kristen also hosts the Trusted by Your Teenager podcast, offering quick 10-minute episodes where she answers questions directly from her community, and has a monthly free workshop to support parents in a difficult space with their teen at KristenDuke.com/lab. She has a Bachelor of Science degree in Child & Human Development from Brigham Young University. Casey Lee Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) Casey Lee is a Licensed Professional Counselor and Founder of Rooted Hearts Counseling LLC. With over a decade of experience, he specializes in facilitating growth and healing through co-creating safe and secure connections with couples. Casey holds an MA in Clinical Counseling from Columbia International University and is certified in Emotionally Focused Therapy (EFT) which he uses with all his couples. He is also a Level 2 Accelerated Experiential Dynamic Psychotherapist (AEDP) Therapist and a Level 1 trained Sensorimotor Psychotherapy Therapist. Casey is a member of the International Center for Excellence in Emotionally Focused Therapy, the National Board of Certified Counselors, and an affiliate member of the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy. Sheena Hill Parenting Coach and Holistic Sleep Expert Sheena Hill is a Responsive Parenting and Holistic Sleep Coach based in Pikesville, Maryland. With nearly 20 years of experience, Sheena empowers and educates families through workshops and consulting services, specializing in gentle discipline, co-parenting and building family emotional intelligence. She has experience supporting biological, adoptive, and step-parents, LGBTQ+ families, grandparents, and other caregivers, to navigate through challenges like birth, death, family blending, divorce, and other adjustments. Sheena has masters degrees in Social Work and Education. Tyler Drouet, MA Parenting Coach Tyler Drouet is a certified parenting coach and mother of three based in Birmingham, Alabama. Tyler is associated with Simplify Life Counseling and Coaching, offering virtual appointments nationwide to help expecting parents, new parents, and parents of children from toddler age through teenage years. She specializes in the transition to parenthood, tantrums and power struggles, creating and fostering a more peaceful home, and parent-child relationship dynamics. Tyler has a Masters and Educational Specialist Degree in Counseling from the University of Alabama Birmingham and previous experience as a School Counselor. Lora Luczywo, IBCLC International Board Certified Lactation Consultant Lora Luczywo is an International board certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC) based in Los Angeles, California. Lora has over 10 years of lactation consulting experience. She completed her lactation education at the University of California, San Diego and earned her clinical competency at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center and Torrance Memorial Medical Center. She has a BA in Liberal Arts and Sciences from the University of Arizona. Tara Collins Baby Name Expert Tara Collins is a baby name consultant based in the Gold Coast, Australia. As a lifelong lover of names, Tara established The Name Nest in 2018 after her personal journey of selecting her children’s names. She wanted to create a space for mothers where there was a diverse collection of rare, unique and beautiful names. Known as thenamenest on social media, Tara blends her creative writing and art skills to create special name collections for over 205k followers. In addition to content creation, she also offers baby name consultation and a variety of customizable products including baby wraps, cards, and artwork. Kayla Tschumper Certified Birth Doula Kayla Tschumper is a DONA-trained birth doula and assistant midwife based in Rochester, Minnesota. Prior to getting into birth work, Kayla was a pediatrics nurse for nearly 10 years and now is the founder of My Birth Choices, a business providing birth education and doula services. Through My Birth Choices, she partners with families to achieve a peaceful and powerful birth. Families served by Kayla’s clients have offered 5 star reviews of her services on Google and other online testimonial sources. She is Gilligan's Guide trained and has supported births at Mayo Clinic, Olmstead Medical Center, and in homes across Southeast Minnesota. As a mom of three herself, she is passionate about providing tools to mothers-to-be that promote a peaceful and powerful birthing experience. She received a BS in Nursing from Winona State University. Sarah R. Moore Accredited Parenting Coach & Author Sarah R. Moore is a certified parenting Master Trainer based in Boulder, CO. With over 12 years of experience, Sarah is the author of Peaceful Discipline: Story Teaching, Brain Science and Better Behavior and the founder of Dandelion Seeds Positive Parenting. She offers parent coaching and an ICF-accredited certification program. She is trained in child development, trauma recovery, and interpersonal neurobiology, and offers individual, group, and corporate coaching for parents and caregivers. Sarah is the Board Chair for the American Society for the Positive Care of Children. Her work has been featured on NBC, CBS, Motherly, Natural Parent Magazine, and more. Sarah is also a frequent podcast guest and public speaker, and has 17 years of previous experience in conflict resolution, communications, sales management, technical and marketing writing, project management, and international business development. Eric Taylor Parenting Coach Eric Taylor is a parenting and marriage content creator known as Dopedad_e on social media. Eric creates relatable parenting and relationship content for his community of nearly 300k followers, emphasizing breaking generational curses, loving your spouses with power, and raising your children with purpose. He has collaborated with brands like Sour Patch Kids, Play-Doh, Dave’s Killer Bread, and Time 4 Learning. In 2023, his ‘Dusty Son’ viral trend was featured on The Sherri Show, Buzzfeed, and Good Morning America, and his content has further been featured in publications like Parents and Goodful. Lauren Chan Lee, MBA Product Leader, Care.com Lauren Chan Lee is Senior Director of Product Management at Care.com, the largest online marketplace for finding and managing family care. She has worked in product management for over 10 years across a variety of specialties and areas. She received her MBA from Northwestern University in 2009. Evonna Christmon Marshall Certified Birth Doula Evonna Christmon Marshall is a Certified Birth Doula based in Atlanta, Georgia, and the founder of Earthside with Evonna Birth Services. Her practice centers Black and Indigenous families and draws on ancestral birth traditions. In addition to being certified by DONA International, Evonna has trained in indigenous healing practices, including sobada, a form of bodywork that she studied under Mayan midwives in Merida, Mexico. This technique involves body alignment, energy work, and the use of Mayan and Caribbean herbal remedies. Evonna also founded The Motherhood Moon Circle, a healing space for Black mothers and pregnant women. The circle includes a cleansing ceremony, sensual movement, sound bowl meditation, plant-based meals, and group energy sessions. It is a space for deep connection, healing, and shared experiences, allowing women to come together and support each other in their journeys through motherhood. In addition to her doula practice, Evonna started the Motherhood Healing Collective, a group of doulas, childbirth educators, a therapist, and other professionals who provide birth and postpartum care to marginalized families. The collective focuses on addressing healthcare disparities and offering culturally relevant care to under-resourced communities. Evonna is also a member of DONA International's Black Mother and Baby Subcommittee and volunteers as a doula for immigrant mothers through Friends of Refugees. Gloria Hines Certified Professional Midwife Gloria Hines is a Certified Professional Midwife based in South Kansas City, Missouri. Along with her business partner Rebekah Hoover, she started Glory Birth, an organization focused on a variety of midwifery services, including prenatal care, birth support, postpartum visits, and more. She began her midwifery journey in 2017, and has been trained in breech by Dr. Stu with Birthing Instincts, Dr. Hayes and Dr. Rixa Freeze with Breech without Borders, and Augustine Colebrooke with Midwifery Wisdom Collective. She graduated with GoMidwife in 2019 and did the apprenticeship PEP route to become a CPM. She passed her board exam in March of 2021. She attended over 200 births under the training of Amber Walla. After graduating, Gloria was hired by Debbie Perry and worked with her for 2 years. Her continuing education includes peer review, NRP, CPR, spinning babies, online courses, conferences and workshops. Today, she has attended over 450 births and serves women all over Kansas and Missouri. She is a Certified Professional Midwife through the North American Registry of Midwives (NARM). Her ultimate goal in midwifery is to change the worldwide statistics for maternal and neonatal mortality rates. She seeks to raise up midwives and send them back to their communities, causing a ripple effect and raising the bar for maternity care and saving lives. Takiema Bunche-Smith, MS, MPA Childhood & Elementary Education Advocate Takiema Bunche-Smith is the President of Anahsa, an educational consulting company based in New York City. She holds three Master's degrees: an MPA in nonprofit leadership and management from New York University, an MS in Urban Education Policy from the CUNY Graduate Center, and an MS in Early Childhood & Elementary Education from Bank Street College of Education. Takiema was also the Content Director for Sesame Street from 2007-2009. Takiema was awarded a “Bammy Award” by the Academy of Education Arts and Sciences in 2014, one of 25 educators and education professionals to receive the award across the United States. Lisa Greaves Taylor, CCCE, LCCE, CD (DONA) Certified Doula & Childbirth Educator Lisa Greaves Taylor, CCCE, LCCE, CD (DONA) is a certified childbirth educator, birth doula, and founder of Birth Matters NYC. With over 10 years of experience, Lisa specializes in labor support, postpartum wellness, and education in the first few months of parenthood. She is a certified childbirth educator with both the Childbirth Education Association of Metropolitan New York (CEA/MNY) and Lamaze International. Lisa served on CEA/MNY’s board for 5 years and was named CEA’s Ellen Chuse Childbirth Educator of the Year in 2018. Lisa is also a DONA-certified labor support doula and a professional member of Evidence Based Birth. Kristi Reed Certified Birth Doula Kristi Reed is a Certified Birth Doula based in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Kristi is also trained as a Postpartum Doula, Childbirth Educator, and student midwife. She is the owner of Your Birth Doulas, an organization specializing in birth doula support, postpartum support, lactation support, placenta encapsulation, and comprehensive childbirth education & parenting Classes. Kristi manages a team of seasoned doulas, who all support clients in Lancaster County and surrounding areas. Your Birth does not follow a one-size-fits-all model of doula care. Kristi has carefully curated a team of doulas that each have a particular passion within the birth and early parenting world. Kristi herself works with each and every client in a personalized way, to ensure that the doula she matches each client with is one that the client will feel connected to. Music Tanisha Hall Vocal Coach Tanisha Hall is a Vocal Coach and the Founder and Executive Director of White Hall Arts Academy, Inc. an organization based in Los Angeles, California that offers a multi-level curriculum focused on fundamental skills, technique, composition, theory, artistry, and performance at a conservatory level. Ms. Hall's current and previous students include Galimatias, Sanai Victoria, Ant Clemons, and Paloma Ford. She earned a BA in Music from the Berklee College of Music in 1998 and was a recipient of the Music Business Management Achievement Award. Patrick Muñoz Voice & Speech Coach Patrick is an internationally recognized Voice & Speech Coach, focusing on public speaking, vocal power, accent and dialects, accent reduction, voiceover, acting and speech therapy. He has worked with clients such as Penelope Cruz, Eva Longoria, and Roselyn Sanchez. He was voted LA's Favorite Voice and Dialect Coach by BACKSTAGE, is the voice and speech coach for Disney and Turner Classic Movies, and is a member of Voice and Speech Trainers Association. Amy Chapman, MA Voice & Speech Coach Amy Chapman MA, CCC-SLP is a Vocal Therapist and Singing Voice Specialist. Amy is a licensed and board-certified speech & language pathologist who has dedicated her career to helping professionals improve and optimize their voice. Amy has lectured on voice optimization, speech, vocal health, and voice rehabilitation at universities across California, including UCLA, USC, Chapman University, Cal Poly Pomona, CSUF, CSULA. Amy is trained in Lee Silverman Voice Therapy, Estill, LMRVT, and is a part of the American Speech and Hearing Association. Timothy Linetsky Music Producer & Instructor Timothy Linetsky is a DJ, producer, YouTuber, and music educator based in San Francisco, California. He has been making music for over 15 years, and is known for his YouTube channel You Suck at Producing, in which he does music production tutorials for over 330,000 YouTube subscribers. In addition to teaching music production, he releases his own music as Underbelly. He has taught at schools such as Beat Lab Academy and Pyramind. He is also an Ableton Certified Trainer, and has worked closely with the company to produce tutorial videos and educational content. His original productions have garnered millions of plays on Spotify, and in 2020, he released his debut album Machine Yearning as Underbelly to critical acclaim. Nicolas Adams Professional Guitarist Nicolas Adams is a 5th generation musician of Serbian Gypsy descent and the lead guitarist of the band Gypsy Tribe. Based in the San Francisco Bay Area, Nicolas specializes in Rumba Flamenco and Gypsy jazz and playing the guitar, Bouzouki, Balalaika, and piano. Yolanda Thomas Dance Instructor Yolanda Thomas is a Hip Hop Dance Instructor based in Los Angeles, California and Sydney, Australia. Yolanda has taught hip hop at the Sydney Dance Company and is a two-time winner of the LA Music Award for singing and songwriting. She has won Choreographer of the Year by GROOVE, an Australian hip hop dance competition and was hired by Google to choreograph their Sydney Mardi Gras float. Michael Noble, PhD Professional Pianist Michael Noble is a professional concert pianist who received his PhD in Piano Performance from the Yale School of Music. He is a previous contemporary music fellow of the Belgian American Educational Foundation and has performed at Carnegie Hall and at other venues across the United States, Europe, and Asia. Aaron Asghari Professional Guitarist & Instructor Aaron Asghari is a Professional Guitarist and the lead guitarist of The Ghost Next Door. He received his degree in Guitar Performance from the Guitar Institute of Technology program in Los Angeles. In addition to writing and performing with The Ghost Next Door, he founded Asghari Guitar Lessons, where he was the primary guitar instructor for many years. Carlos Alonzo Rivera, MA Professional Guitarist Carlos Alonzo Rivera is a guitarist, composer, and educator based in San Francisco, California. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Music from California State University, Chico, as well as a Master of Music degree in Classical Guitar Performance from the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. Carlos specializes in the following genres: classical, jazz. rock, metal and blues. Nate Savage Guitar Expert Nate Savage is a professional guitarist with over 16 years of experience teaching guitar to students around the world. His YouTube channel, Guitareo, has over 450,000 subscribers. Annabeth Novitzki Music Teacher Annabeth Novitzki is a Private Music Teacher in Austin, Texas. She received her BFA in Vocal Performance from Carnegie Mellon University in 2004 and her Master of Music in Vocal Performance from the University of Memphis in 2012. She has been teaching music lessons since 2004. Carolyn Marie Singer-Songwriter Carolyn Marie is a Singer-Songwriter, Country Artist, and Dancer. She has graced iconic stages like the Stone Pony and shared the spotlight with icons like Boy George & Culture Club and The Thompson Twins. Carolyn is passionate about storytelling and believes anyone can write a song, which inspired her weekly live songwriting sessions. In 2019, Carolyn Marie was honored with the Discover Lehigh Valley's "Discovered Artist" award at the Lehigh Valley Music Awards. Her country song, “Just Drive”, hit the top 100 of the iTunes Country Music Charts, peaking at #83, and was played during the Halftime Show at Super Bowl LVII. As a dancer, she has trained extensively in ballet, jazz, tap, lyrical, contemporary, and musical theatre, blending classical technique with commercial performance style. She brings a unique crossover skillset to the entertainment industry as a dancer, singer, and content creator, performing and creating across stage, screen, and digital platforms. Montel Moore Singer-Songwriter and Musician Montel Moore is a singer-songwriter, musician, and vocal producer based in St. Louis, Missouri. While in college, Montel joined the InUnison Chorus as their tenor lead and had opportunities to perform with the Grammy-award-winning St. Louis Symphony Orchestra at Powell Symphony Hall, collaborate with diverse artists, and perform as a rotating national anthem singer for the St. Louis Blues NHL team for five years. In 2021 He signed his first publishing deal with Maverick City Music, which launched him into his co-songwriting career. Montel later co-founded his present songwriter collective, Family Music, and has since written over 500 songs. He has done vocal production and recorded background vocals for artists including Chloe Agnew, Walker Hayes, Tauren Wells, Ryan Ellis, Harper Grace, and more. Montel graduated from Lindenwood University with a BA in Vocal Music. Andrea Stolpe Songwriting Instructor and Artist Development Coach Andrea Stolpe is a songwriting instructor and artist development coach based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 20 years of experience in the music industry, Andrea is a multi-platinum songwriter with songs penned for artists like Faith Hill, Julianne Hough, and Jimmy Wayne, and has worked for companies like Universal Music Publishing, EMI, and Almo-Irving. She has taught songwriting programs at Belmont University, Berklee College of Music, and the University of Southern California Thornton School of Music. Her online courses received Music Educator’s Grammy Nominations, and the prestigious Gold Telly Award for non-broadcast educational videos. She also wrote a book called Popular Lyric Writing and hosts a 5-day immersive songwriters' retreat called Writer to Writer. Andrea has a Bachelor of Music from Berklee College of Music. Dalia Miguel Experienced Violin Instructor Dalia Miguel is a violinist and violin instructor based in the San Francisco Bay Area. She is studying Music Education and Violin Performance at San Jose State University and has been playing violin for over 15 years. Dalia teaches students of all ages and performs with a variety of symphonies and orchestras in the Bay Area. Sean Campbell Music Teacher Sean Campbell is a music teacher based in Santa Monica, CA. Sean has created a revolutionary and innovative approach to piano instruction utilizing letters, colors, and numbers called Piano Tab. As the founder of Music Lyceum and Learn Piano in 30, he delivers a unique learning experience to those who find traditional piano lessons uninspiring. In addition to piano, he also offers lessons in guitar, ukulele, harmonica, and bass at the Music Lyceum. Sean is passionate about making music accessible to all. With expertise in piano, guitar, harmonica, bass, and ukulele, Sean’s unique, non-traditional teaching methods—like his revolutionary Piano Tabs—allow students to learn quickly and easily. His mission is to inspire those who might not follow a traditional path to music, offering a fun and approachable way to unlock their musical potential. As a dedicated performer and songwriter, Sean continually refines his craft, making him the ideal guide for his clients’ musical journey. Sean’s work has been featured in The Argonaut, the Santa Monica Daily Press, and on KTLA Channel 5. Viankha Jesslyn K-Pop Idol and Performer Viankha Jesslyn is a K-pop idol based in South Korea. Known as Via, she got her start at GBK Entertainment in the pre-debut girl group name mep-c in 2022 after completing several months of online training. In 2023, Via moved to BY-U Entertainment and first debuted in the girl group Beauty Box, releasing several songs, performing concerts, and touring. She most recently began working with NA Entertainment in 2025, joining their training program and scheduled to debut in the girl group NWH:I on October 24, 2025. Via has a bachelor's degree from Sekola Tinggi Musik Bandung (Bandung School of Music). Michael Papenburg Professional Guitarist Michael Papenburg is a Professional Guitarist based in the San Francisco Bay Area with over 35 years of teaching and performing experience. He specializes in rock, alternative, slide guitar, blues, funk, country, and folk. Michael has played with Bay Area local artists including Matadore, The Jerry Hannan Band, Matt Nathanson, Brittany Shane, and Orange. Michael currently plays lead guitar for Petty Theft, a tribute to Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. Stephen Beckwith Guitar Expert and Luthier Stephen Beckwith is a luthier and owner of Beckwith Strings based in Grafton, MA. Stephen has handcrafted over 100 unique acoustic stringed instruments and offers repair and maintenance services for most stringed instruments. He specializes in crafting guitars and offers customizations to address musicians’ needs. He has been playing guitar since age 9 and continues to perform live music and coordinate monthly jam sessions for musicians in the area. Stephen is a self-taught craftsman and a member of the Guild of American Luthiers. Carter Miller Trumpet Player Carter Miller is a trumpet player and YouTube creator. He is known for taking pop songs and transcribing them for the trumpet. He uploads step-by-step tutorials and full trumpet arrangements for his pieces, and posts videos of him playing as well. He has over 12.2k followers on YouTube, with some of his most popular covers garnering over 136k views including Industry Baby by Lil Nas X and Jack Harlow, Uptown Funk by Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars, and Love Yourself by Justin Bieber. Tomas Michaud Guitar Teacher Tomas Michaud is a Guitar Teacher and Owner of the Real Guitar School and Starland School Of Music in Alameda, California. With over 40 years of experience in the music industry, Tomas creates step-by-step lessons for adult beginners that want to play acoustic guitar and create their own music. He is passionate about making fun and accessible material for people wanting to learn a new instrument. He has recorded six CDs and has a B.A. in Music from California State University - Easy Bay. Ron Bautista Professional Guitarist & Guitar Instructor Ron Bautista is a professional guitarist and guitar teacher at More Music in Santa Cruz, California and the Los Gatos School of Music in Los Gatos, California. He has played guitar for over 30 years and has taught music for over 15 years. He teaches Jazz, Rock, Fusion, Blues, Fingerpicking, and Bluegrass. Jennifer Slaughter Flute Expert Jennifer Slaughter is a Professional Flutist and Flute Instructor based in Spokane, WA. With over 15 years of experience, she is dedicated to sharing and teaching music with aspiring flutists. Jennifer is the founder of Jennifer Slaughter Flute Studio and provides online and in-person lessons to all ages. She also plays flute in the Spokane Symphony. Ricky Armellino Musician Ricky Armellino is a musician based in both Lancaster, Pennsylvania and Los Angeles, California. As a self-taught vocalist, guitarist, and music producer, he is passionate about all aspects of the music industry. He has played as a musician with multiple bands across over 60 international tours with Ice Nine Kills, HAWK, and This or the Apocalypse as both a lead singer and a guitarist. In addition to his bands and personal musical projects, Ricky has worked with singers, bands, video game/film companies to create over 500 released productions through multiple modalities, including songwriting projects, technical music production, sound mixing, and engineering. Ricky runs a studio in both Lancaster and LA, and cares about incorporating meditation and nervous system regulation as a way to freely express creative energy and produce interesting song lyrics and production work. He received a BA in English from the University of Alabama. Sue Yang Instrumental Music Teacher Sue Yang is an Instrumental Music Instructor based in Sunnyvale, CA. With over 22 years of experience, Sue's expertise spans piano, voice, violin, and songwriting. After working in performance, event production, and teaching, Sue served as a resident bilingual music instructor at the International School of The Peninsula in Palo Alto, where she played a crucial role in developing the curriculum from nursery school through 5th grade. In 2009, Sue established the Sue Yang Music Studio, which later became the First Movement Music Academy. Sue is also the founder of the TAJCCNC National iSing singing competition in North America and an active contributor to the Taiwanese-American Chamber of Commerce. She graduated from the Queensland Conservatorium Griffith University in Australia with a Bachelor of Music. Scott Cushman Musician Scott Cushman is a musician specializing in the bass guitar based in Portland, Oregon. Scott strongly believes in a DIY approach to music and the importance of fostering a good music community on and off the stage. His band, Rad Max, has released two full-length albums, played shows all around the Pacific Northwest, and started their own music-and-movie series called So Bad, It's Rad!. They have been featured on Drunk Dials Records, PDX Pop Now!, & Tender Loving Empire compilations, have featured in a short horror film, and played with such touring acts as SPELLS, Daikaiju, and MDC. Scott received a BA in English Literature from the University of Oregon. Tiffany Schaefer Harpist and Singer Tiffany Schaefer is a harpist and singer based in Northeast Ohio. Tiffany has been playing the harp since 2007 with a special interest in traditional Celtic music. She offers music for festivals, Irish-themed weddings, concerts and other events both as a solo artist and with the bands Trio 42 and Cleveland Celtic Ensemble. In addition, Tiffany has been teaching private harp lessons since 2016 both in Cleveland and virtually over Zoom. She teaches group harp workshops and makes educational videos on YouTube and Patreon. Tiffany studied harp at the Ohio Scottish Arts School under master harpers and has competed in Scottish Harp Society of America-sanctioned competitions. In 2022, she won the title of US National Scottish Harp Champion™ and won a scholarship to travel to Scotland. Sofia Montañez Taylor Swift Fandom Content Creator Sofia Montañez is a Taylor Swift fandom content creator based in Monterrey, Mexico. With over 5 years of experience creating content, Sofia is known as Swift Better Have My Money on social media. Her content has a fashion focus, sharing fashion videos that offer a dupe for a Taylor Swift outfit or recreates a Taylor Swift album cover or photoshoot. With nearly 75k followers on Instagram, Sofia is also a LaceMade ambassador. She has a bachelor’s degree in Communications from Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León and currently works as a marketing executive for Apetit Catering. Amy Nicole Levine Pianist, Music Teacher, and Songwriter Amy Nicole Levine is a Pianist, Music Teacher, and Songwriter, based in Oakland, CA. She performs in a wide variety of genres ranging from Jazz, Classical, Funk, R&B, Gospel, Rock, Reggae, Latin, Chorale, and others. Amy teaches private piano lessons to both adults and children at her studio in Oakland. Amy plays with multiple music groups throughout the Bay Area. She earned her Bachelor of Arts in Sociology from San Francisco State University. Dimitry Olevsky Musician Dimitry Olevsky is a Musician specializing in Violin based in Los Angeles, Callifornia. In addition to solo and chamber recitals, Dimitry performs with symphonic and operatic orchestras globally. As both a concert violinist and teacher, he uses traditional methods incorporated with disciplines and principles of Sports Psychology for musical advancement, emphasizing social, mental, and artistic performance. 90% of his students have been awarded the Certificate of Merit® (CM) by the Music Teachers’ Association of California® (MTAC). In addition to his private violin studio, he is on the faculty at the following institutions: the Colburn School, the Windward School, and Crossroads School for the Arts and Sciences. Dimitry holds a Bachelor of Music from California State University of Long Beach, and a Master of Music from the Manhattan School of Music in New York. He also holds a Doctorate of Musical Arts from UC Santa Barbara under the tutelage of the renowned violinist Yuval Yaron. During his studies, Dimitry was the first violinist of the Young Artists String Quartet in residence, a Concerto Competition winner, and concertmaster of the UCSB Symphony. Warren Lee Professional Pianist, Composer, and Music Educator Warren Lee is a Professional Pianist, Composer, and Music Educator based in Hong Kong. Lee is a concert pianist of the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra and is on both the Steinway Artist and Naxos Recording Artist rosters. Lee was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy of Music in 2015. In 2017, he received the Ian Mininberg Distinguished Alumni Award from Yale University. He holds a Bachelor's degree in Music from the Royal Academy of Music and a Master's degree in Music from Yale University. Lee also holds an MBA degree from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and an LLM degree in Intellectual Property Law from the University of London. Jason Kleinberg Musician Jason Kleinberg is a Musician and Music Teacher based in San Francisco, California. He is a Professional Violinist, Songwriter, and Composer who has performed across the U.S., Europe, and Japan, both solo and with the group Diego’s Umbrella. Jason composed the film score for the documentary “Gumby Dharma”, released in 2006. He teaches fiddle and violin lessons online and creates video content through his channel called FiddleHed. Kayla Wong Taylor Swift Fandom Content Creator Kayla Wong is a Taylor Swift fandom content creator based in Los Angeles, CA. With over 5 years of experience on social media, Kayla is known for producing data-driven and analytical content. Her account, @headfirstfearless, showcases a variety of charts and infographics, breaking down Taylor’s lyrics, career milestones, fandom lore, and more — all through a data lens. Kayla has been a Taylor Swift fan since the Fearless album (2008), and has followed along with Taylor Swift’s journey since. Andrew McCormick Guitar Instructor Andrew McCormick is a Guitar Instructor based in Orange County, California. In addition to teaching students on an individual level, Andrew provides all kinds of instructional guitar videos on his YouTube channel, where he has over 7,000 subscribers and 1.6 million views. He is also part of the musical group Triple Thread. Chantel Nicole Popular Music Critic and Musician Chantel Nicole is a New York–based recording artist, songwriter, and pop music podcast host. She has extensive experience in the U.S. and Korean music industries and has worked for multiple music labels in a variety of roles, including Publishing Assistant, Songwriter, and Sync Licensing Assistant. Throughout her career, she has built a professional breadth of knowledge in music production, music publishing, sync licensing, and global pop music trends. Chantel has released music across a wide range of genres, including K-pop, Latin Pop, R&B, Alternative, and Pop. She is the co-host of the CCTV: Nonstop Pop Show, a leading pop culture and music commentary podcast recognized by Feedspot as one of the “45 Best Pop Music Podcasts to Listen to in 2025.” Chantel brings authoritative, artist-focused expertise in music creation, vocal technique, pop culture analysis, K-pop commentary, and industry insights, making her a trusted source for anyone interested in understanding modern pop music. Ed Fagenson Ukulele Expert Ed Fagenson is a Ukulele Expert based in Orange County, California. He is a highly skilled ukulele professional, boasting extensive experience as an educator, instructor, and group leader. Throughout his career, Ed has overseen ukulele ensembles of varying sizes, including gatherings with as many as 200 participants. His captivating performances have delighted audiences in both intimate and large settings. Ed plays a pivotal role in nurturing local ukulele communities through his active participation with Island Bazaar Ukuleles, a prominent retail and online store, and The Orange County Uke Festival, a celebrated event in Southern California. His expertise encompasses a comprehensive understanding of all aspects related to the ukulele. Jojo Johnson Taylor Swift Content Creator Jojo Johnson is a Taylor Swift content creator based in Kansas City, Missouri. Jojo has been a fan of Taylor Swift since 2006 and is known as @swiftieinkc on social media. She has been creating content for over 2 years and shares a variety of Swiftie and KC football content. Jojo has amassed 25K followers on YouTube, 60K on Instagram, and 151k on TikTok, and over 15 million likes. Jonathan Stancato Voice Coach Jonathan Stancato is a Holistic Voice Coach and the Founder of Inside Voice, an approach to improving one's voice and singing abilities through a mind-body 5-octave approach developed while he was working at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London. He serves clients online and in-person in the New York City metro area and has taught students in theatre conservatories, music festivals, mindfulness organizations, TED Conferences, colleges, choirs, and corporations. Jonathan has extensive training in extended voice (Richard Armstrong/Roy Hart), Hindustani classical vocals (Michael Harrison), and trance singing (Thomas Richards/Grotowski Workcenter). Renee Lerner Accordion Repair Expert Renee Lerner is an accordion repair expert at Romagnoli Accordions based in Oak Lawn, Illinois. Renee apprenticed with a master accordion repairman for 10 years and now has over 15 years of experience working with accordions. Romagnoli Accordions first opened in Chicago, Illinois, as the Italo-American Accordion Company in 1910, and after 115 years, it remains the oldest accordion shop in America. Romagnoli Accordions offers accordion lessons and rentals, repair, and a repair apprenticeship. Renee is passionate about being an ambassador for the accordion and encouraging people to play and repair their instruments for continued enjoyment. Ryan Alexander Bloom Drum Instructor Ryan Alexander Bloom is a drum teacher, a former member of the Colorado-based trash metal band Havok, and a current member of the band Bloodstrike. Ryan is also an author of the Double Bass Drumming Explained series. He has a BA in Music from the University of Colorado at Boulder and has taught drumming at numerous schools throughout Colorado. Jim Jarrett Acting Teacher Jim Jarrett is an Acting Teacher and the Founder of The Meisner Technique Studio based in San Francisco, California. With over 30 years of experience, he specializes in teaching The Meisner Technique and is Sanford Meisner's last teaching protégé. Over the years, Jim has established schools in Los Angeles, California, Hawaii, and Sun Valley, Idaho. He also travels the world annually as a guest teacher at universities, performing art schools, and theater companies throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. His flagship school is located in the heart of the Presidio in San Francisco, California. Nick Fry Music Critic and Journalist Nick Fry is a Music Critic and Journalist. Natural Medicine Zora Degrandpre, ND Natural Health Doctor Dr. Zora Degrandpre is a Natural Health Doctor and Licensed Naturopathic Physician in Vancouver, Washington. She is a grant reviewer for the National Institutes of Health and the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. She received her ND from the National College of Natural Medicine in 2007. Lisa Bryant, ND Licensed Naturopathic Physician Dr. Lisa Bryant is Licensed Naturopathic Physician and natural medicine expert based in Portland, Oregon. She earned a Doctorate of Naturopathic Medicine from the National College of Natural Medicine in Portland, Oregon and completed her residency in Naturopathic Family Medicine there in 2014. Ritu Thakur, MA Natural Health Care Professional Dr. Ritu Thakur is a healthcare consultant based in Delhi, India. She has over 14 years of experience in Ayurveda, Naturopathy, Yoga, and Holistic Care. Dr. Ritu also works as a business consultant in the life sciences domain. She has successfully executed 150+ small to large-scale custom consulting projects for both established and development-stage companies. She received her Bachelor Degree in Medicine (BAMS) in 2009 from BU University, Bhopal followed by her Master's in Health Care in 2011 from Apollo Institute of Health Care Management, Hyderabad. Jamie Corroon, ND, MPH Medical Director of the Center for Medical Cannabis Education Dr. Jamie Corroon, ND, MPH is the founder and Medical Director of the Center for Medical Cannabis Education. Dr. Corroon is a licensed Naturopathic Doctor and clinical researcher. In addition to clinical practice, Dr. Corroon advises dietary supplement and cannabis companies regarding science, regulation, and product development. He is well published in the peer-review literature, with recent publications that investigate the clinical and public health implications of the broadening acceptance of cannabis in society. He earned a Masters in Public Health (MPH) in Epidemiology from San Diego State University. He also earned a Doctor of Naturopathic Medicine degree from Bastyr University, subsequently completed two years of residency at the Bastyr Center for Natural Health, and is a former adjunct professor at Bastyr University California. Karina Menali, L.Ac., DACM, Dipl. OM Licensed Acupuncturist & Diplomate of Oriental Medicine Dr. Karina Menali is a Licensed Acupuncturist, Diplomate of Oriental Medicine, Faculty Member at Yo San University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, and the Owner of Kai Wellness. She specializes in holistic health, Chinese herbal medicine, and functional medicine. Dr. Menali also helps patients through emotional and spiritual trauma. She holds a BA in Psychology and Sociology from The University of Massachusetts, Boston, a Master's from Emperor's College in Santa Monica, CA, and a Doctorate of Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine (DACM) from Pacific College of Oriental Medicine. Julie Brow-Polanco Master Herbalist & Certified Aromatherapist Julie Brow-Polanco is a Master Herbalist & Certified Aromatherapist with more than 11 years of experience. She is an expert on natural remedies and specializes in using them to support whole-body wellness, particularly immune, digestive, nervous, and reproductive health. Julie earned a Bachelor's Degree in Psychology from Dominican University, a Master Herbalist Certification from The School of Natural Healing, and a Certificate of Aromatherapy from the Pacific Institute of Aromatherapy. Julie is a member of the American Herbalist Guild and a Certified Aromatherapist through the National Association of Holistic Aromatherapy. Riley Kirk, PhD Cannabis Research Scientist and Educator Riley Kirk is a cannabis research scientist, natural product chemist, and social media educator based in New Hampshire. Riley is passionate about cannabis education, sharing her research and insights on social media @cannabichem to a community of nearly 500k. She authored the book Reefer Wellness (2025), which provides informative and accessible information about all things cannabis, including how it affects the body, guidance on consuming cannabis, and tips for minimizing common side effects of consumption. Riley is also the host of the bi-weekly podcast, Bioactive, where she shares current news and research surrounding cannabis, psychedelics, toxins, pharmaceuticals, and other bioactive substances, and hosts special guests. She graduated with a PhD in pharmaceutical sciences from the University of Rhode Island and is the co-founder of The Network of Applied Pharmacognosy. Tracy Zollinger Dipl. OM, L.Ac., FABORM Licensed Herbalist & Acupuncturist Tracy Zollinger (she/her) is a Licensed Acupuncturist, Herbalist, and the Founder of Island Acupuncture in the San Francisco Bay Area. With over 15 years of experience, Tracy specializes in a holistic approach to reproductive health, fertility, and pre and post-natal care. Tracy creates comprehensive treatment plans using acupuncture, herbs, nutrition, and western labs. She holds a Master of Science in Traditional Chinese Medicine from the Academy of Chinese Culture and Health Sciences and is board certified in integrative reproductive medicine, with a focus on LGBTQIA specific needs. Anne Dunev, PhD, NP, ACN Certified Nutritionist & Naturopathic Practitioner Anne Dunev is a certified Clinical Nutritionist, Naturopathic Practitioner, and Owner of Well Body Clinic, a wellness clinic in Los Angeles, California. With over 25 years of experience, Anne specializes in herbal medicine, functional medicine, women's health, hormonal balance, and digestion. Anne holds a BS in Health Sciences from Ohio State University and a PhD in Natural Medicine. Furthermore, Anne holds a post-doctorate certification in Applied Clinical Nutrition for the Southern California University of Health Sciences. She has taught clinical nutrition, kinesiology, and soft tissue manipulation at the College of Naturopathic Medicine in London, UK. She has been a featured speaker at the International Wellness Festivals in Sun Valley, Idaho and St. Hill, UK. Anne has also been a guest on over 150 radio and television programs. She is the author of the weight-loss book called, “The Fat Fix Diet”. Theresa Fitzpatrick, LMSW Certified Holistic Health Coach Theresa Fitzpatrick is a Certified Holistic Health Coach and the Owner of Mind Your Body Holistic Coaching. She specializes in helping women lose weight and gain confidence. Theresa holds a Master of Social Work from Fordham University and received her Transformational Coach Certification from The Health Coach Institute. Erica Docimo, L.Ac., Dipl. O.M. Licensed Acupuncturist & Herbalist Erica Docimo is a California and National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM) Licensed Acupuncturist, Herbalist, and the Owner of Mind and Body Acupuncture, a holistic healthcare and lifestyle studio based in Los Angeles, California. With over 15 years of experience, she specializes in Acupuncture, Herbal Prescriptions, and Eastern and Western Nutrition. Erica holds a Masters of Chinese Medicine from The Emperor’s College with a focus on Women’s Health. She also received training at The Academy of Orthopedic Acupuncture (AOA) to become certified in pain reflex-release technique and manual nerve blocking. Kristi Acuna Holistic Nutritionist Kristi Acuna is a Holistic Nutritionist and the Owner of Holistic Nutrition Center in Orange County, California. With over 15 years of experience, Kristi specializes in a comprehensive and holistic approach to nutrition through nutrition response testing, heart rate variability, thermography, and brainspan. She has experience helping with weight gain, fatigue, insomnia, food allergies, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, digestion problems, sinus infections, and PMS and menopause symptoms. Kristi holds a BS in Holistic Nutrition from Clayton College of Natural Health. Holistic Nutrition Center focuses on the root cause of health challenges and helps people heal and restore balance to their bodies. Renee Hughes Certified Professional Aromatherapist Renee Hughes is a Certified Professional Aromatherapist and the CEO of The Aromaspecialists. With more than seven years of experience, she specializes in teaching others how to use aromatherapy and become certified aromatherapists. Renee received her training from The New Eden School of Natural Health and Herbal Studies. She is also a Level 2 National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy (NAHA) Certified Professional Aromatherapist and a NAHA Approved School Educator. Aimée Shunney, ND Licensed Naturopathic Doctor Dr. Aimée Gould Shunney is a Licensed Naturopathic Doctor at Santa Cruz Integrative Medicine in Santa Cruz, California where she specializes in women's health and hormone balancing. She also consults with various companies in the natural products industry including CV Sciences, makers of PlusCBD Oil. Dr. Aimée educates consumers, retailers, and healthcare providers about CBD oil through written articles, webinars, podcasts, and conferences nationwide. Her work has been featured at the American Academy for Anti-Aging Medicine, the American Association of Naturopathic Physicians Conference, and on Fox News. She earned her ND from the National College of Naturopathic Medicine in 2001. Peter D'Aquino, L.Ac, MS, NCCAOM Licensed Acupuncturist Peter D'Aquino is an Acupuncturist and Diplomate in Oriental Medicine based in New York City. Peter is licensed to practice in New York State and holds board certification by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture (NCCAOM) and Oriental Medicine in acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine. He has 10 years of experience practicing holistic pain management and sports medicine. He specializes in treating pain and orthopedic conditions along with rehab, fitness, weight loss, and digestive issues. He is also certified as a Personal Trainer by The National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) and certified in Functional Range Conditioning (FRC) and Functional Range Release (FRR) movement therapy. He holds an MA in Acupuncture and Herbal Medicine from Pacific College of Oriental Medicine in New York (PCOM). Georgia Grey Holistic Health Coach Georgia Grey is a Holistic Health Coach and the Owner of Whole Body Healing Nutrition. With more than five years of experience, she specializes in autoimmune disorders, Lyme disease, and inflammation. Georgia earned a BA from Southern Methodist University and a Degree in Advanced Hormone Health from the Institute of Integrative Nutrition. She is also a Certified Holistic Health Coach through the Institute for Integrative Nutrition and a Certified Holistic Health Practitioner through the American Association of Drugless Practitioners. Michael Corsilles, ND Naturopath & Physician Assistant Dr. Corsilles is a Naturopath and a Physician Assistant in Washington. He completed his Naturopathic medical training at Bastyr University in 2003, and received his Physician Assistant certification from the University of Washington in 2010. Cécile Ellert, MA Holistic Aromatherapist Cécile Ellert is a French Holistic Aromatherapist in New Hampshire. Cécile is a member of the National Association of Holistic Aromatherapy, has written six books on aromatic practice and detoxification, and is a teacher at AromaPro, an online aromatherapy school. She received her MA in Counseling in Psychosomatic Psychology from Bircham International University in 2012. Wedding & Event Planning Ivy Summer Certified Wedding & Event Planner Ivy Summer is a Certified Wedding Planner and the Owner of Voulez Events. Ivy has over 10 years of experience consulting, planning and coordinating weddings around the globe. She has also created a DIY online wedding planning workshop for couples, called "Plan Your Wedding Like A Pro." She currently resides in Greece where she continues to work with a worldwide network of planners and wedding professionals. Natasha Miller Event Planner & CEO, Entire Productions Natasha Miller is an Event Planner, Chief Experience Designer, and President of Entire Productions, an event and entertainment production company based in San Francisco, California. Notable clients Natasha has collaborated with include Apple, Google, Gap, Louis Vuitton, Tiffany & Co., and Salesforce. Natasha and Entire Productions has been awarded Inc. 5,000's "Fastest Growing Companies in America", Entrepreneur Magazine's 360 List of "Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America." Entire Productions is also a Certified Women Business Enterprise. Natasha is a member of Meeting Professionals International (MPI). Amy Tan Travel Planner & Founder, Planet Hoppers Amy Tan is a Travel Planner and the Founder of Planet Hoppers, a boutique travel design team founded in 2002. Planet Hoppers specializes in brainstorming and creating itineraries for dream vacations, honeymoons, exotic adventures, family reunions, and group trips. Planet Hoppers is a TRUE accredited travel agency and a member of the Signature Travel Network, the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), and Travel Leaders. Amy earned a BA in Communications and a BS in Physics from the University of California, Davis in 2000. Stefanie Chu-Leong Owner & Senior Event Planner, Stellify Events Stefanie Chu-Leong is the Owner and Senior Event Planner for Stellify Events, an event management business based in the San Francisco Bay Area and California Central Valley. Stefanie has over 15 years of event planning experience and specializes in large-scale events and special occasions. She has a BA in Marketing from San Francisco State University. Stef Katz Travel Agent Stef Katz is a Travel Agent and the Founder of The Travel Superhero. She has helped clients enjoy convenience, access, personal attention, and ease in their travel planning for 6 years. Stef specializes in elevated social travel and finds ways to bring peace of mind to her travelers with open communication, genuine care, and professional support. She holds an Associate's Degree in Liberal Arts from Miami Dade College and a Bachelor's Degree in Marketing from the University of Florida, as well as numerous certifications with destinations, tour companies, and cruise lines in the travel industry. Jenny Yi Professional Wedding Planner Jenny Yi is the Founder of Chloe+Mint, an award-winning full service event planning company that specializes in wedding planning, design and floral design. Jenny has been in the industry for over 5 years, and also works closely with notable brands and celebrities on branding and events. Jove Meyer Professional Wedding & Event Planner Jove Meyer is the founder and principal of Jove Meyer Events. An award-winning event planner, designer, and LGBTQ+ advocate, Jove’s work has been featured in Vogue, The New York Times, Refinery29, and Martha Stewart and more. Jove has been named as a “Wedding Guru” from US Weekly and as one of the top wedding planners in the USA from The Knot, Brides, Harper's Bazaar, Over the Moon, and WedVibes. He received a BA in Political Science from Columbia University. Rachel Weinshanker Certified Event & Wedding Planner Rachel Weinshanker is a Certified Event and Wedding Planner and the Owner of San Diego Life Events, an award-winning wedding and event planning business based in San Diego, California. Rachel has over eight years of event planning experience, and her work has been featured in many notable publications. San Diego Life Events has been awarded the Wedding Wire Couple's Choice Award in 2018, 2019, and 2020. Rachel is a graduate from San Diego State University. Hope Mirlis Wedding Officiant & Marriage Counselor Hope Mirlis is a registered Wedding Officiant, an Ordained Non-Denominational Minister, and a Certified Yoga Instructor specializing in pre-wedding mental health. She is the Founder of A More Perfect Union, a premarital counseling business. She has worked as a counselor and officiant for over eight years and has helped hundreds of couples strengthen their relationships. She has a MFA in Dramatic Arts from the University of California, Davis. Minoti Mehta Event & Wedding Planner Minoti Mehta is the Founder of Vermilion Weddings & Events, an event and wedding planning business based in San Francisco, California. Minoti grew up in the event and wedding planning space and has over five years of event planning experience. She has been invited to participate as a Delegate at five exclusive Event Planner Conferences including Destination Wedding Planners Congress and Planners Xtraordinaire and has become known as one of the Top Wedding and Event Planners in the San Francisco Bay Area. Minoti's work has been featured on NDTV India, Love Stories TV, Maharani Weddings, and WedWise India. Vermilion Weddings & Events was also awarded WeddingWire's Couple's Choice Award in 2018. Minoti has a BS in Hospitality Management and Accounting from the University of San Francisco. Karen Brown Wedding & Event Planner Karen Brown is the Founder and Creative Director of Karen Brown New York, a full service event planning company. Karen has planned hundreds of successful weddings, corporate parties, award ceremonies, product launches, galas, and fundraisers over the past decade throughout the United States, Mexico, and Canada. Megan Papageorge Certified Wedding Planner Megan Papageorge is a Certified Wedding Planner and Owner of Sweet Peach Planning, a wedding planning and management company based in Long Beach, California. She has completed over 200 weddings in settings such as gondolas, church halls, the side of cliffs, and vintage warehouses. Megan also co-hosts Peach & Honey, a wedding planning podcast. She is certified to plan and run weddings by the Bridal Society Educational Course. Her work has been featured in A Practical Wedding, Junebug Weddings, Ceremony Magazine, and The Bridal Society. Carole Grogan Professional Event Planner Carole Grogan is the Owner and Head Event Designer for Bright Blue Events, an event planning company that specializes in weddings. Her team has planned beautiful, detailed weddings, as well as social and corporate events for over 10 years, taking care of details such as floral design, décor, staffing, and catering. Connie Tao Bridal Designer Connie Tao is a Bridal Designer and the Founder of Connie Tao Designs in Pasadena, California. Connie has over 12 years of experience and specializes in creating handmade custom wedding dresses and evening gowns. She and her team also do alterations and redesigns to existing garments. Connie received her Bachelors Degree in Fashion Design from Otis College of Art and Design. Anna Braff Event Decor Specialist Anna Braff is an Event Decor Specialist and Founder & Designer at Provenance Rentals. With over five years of experience, she specializes in providing clients with a range of modern, bespoke, blended, and design-forward furniture and props tailored to their event needs. Provenance Rentals' award-winning work has been published in numerous prestigious magazines such as Vogue, InStyle, People, and Mingle. Anna is a former attorney and earned her Bachelor's Degree from New York University. Hovik Harutyunyan Event & Wedding Planner Hovik Harutyunyan is an Event and Wedding Planner and the Owner of Hovik Harutyunyan Events, a full-service event planning firm based in Los Angeles, California. Hovik has over ten years of hospitality and event planning experience. His firm specializes in weddings, private celebrations, and corporate events. Hovik's work has been featured in Vogue, Martha Stewart Weddings, and Modern Luxury Weddings. He has a BA in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley. Malori Maeva Florist Malori Maeva is a Florist and the Founder of Form Floral in Phoenix, Arizona. With over eight years of experience, she specializes in both the administrative and creative aspects of floristry, styling, and design. Malori holds a Bachelor of Arts in Marketing from Columbia College Chicago. Lisa Maciel Event Stylist Lisa Maciel is an Event Stylist and the CEO of La Vie Posh. With more than five years of experience, she specializes in event styling, balloon installations, and prop rentals. Her work has been featured in party blogs, including  Kara's Party Ideas and Catch My Party. Lisa holds a degree in Interior Design from Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara. Diana Dorsey Wedding & Event Planner Diana Dorsey is a Certified Event Planner and the Owner of Simply Elegant. With over 11 years of experience curating hundreds of events, she specializes in leveraging her attention to detail and people skills to help her clients enjoy planning an event that goes above and beyond. She prides herself on making the planning and day-of experience pleasant for both her clients and vendors. Diana earned a Bachelor's Degree from the University of Phoenix. Leah Weinberg Professional Event Planner Leah Weinberg is the Owner & Creative Director of Color Pop Events — a New York City-based wedding planning company that focuses on the details and lives in the logistics. Now in her 6th year of running Color Pop, Leah’s colorful work and party planning tips have been published online and in print with Vogue, Bravo, Thrive Global, Glamour, Marie Claire, Martha Stewart Weddings, Martha Stewart Living, The Knot, Buzzfeed and more. Leah is also the author of the newly-published book, The Wedding Roller Coaster. Alison Hotchkiss Event Planner Alison Hotchkiss is an Event Planner and the Founder of Alison Events Planning, Design, and Travel based in Sausalito, California. With over 21 years of experience, she specializes in planning luxury travel for clients in both the honeymoon and leisure travel sectors. Alison Events Planning, Design, and Travel was named as one of Vogue’s best wedding planners around the world and is at the top of the list of wedding planners for Goop, Brides, and Martha Stewart Weddings. Alison received a Bachelors degree from Colorado State University. Christa Innis Event Planner, Social Media Consultant & Content Creator Christa Innis is a dynamic entrepreneur, content creator, and social media strategist known for her engaging storytelling, expertise in event planning, and dedication to building supportive communities. As the creator of Party Planning by Christa, she shares wedding tips, heartwarming stories, and hilarious skits that resonate with her audience, celebrating connection and fun through every event. Christa’s insights on self-care inspire her followers to embrace empowerment in their everyday lives. With almost 700,000 followers across platforms, Christa combines her business acumen and authentic personality to encourage others to build community and thrive. Britni Vigil Party Planning and Entertaining Expert Britni Vigil is a party planning and entertaining expert based in Kansas City. With over 12 years of experience, Britni is the founder of PlayPartyPlan.com, sharing party games, crowd-pleasing recipes, and memorable experiences for all ages. Her platform has become a trusted resource to millions of families, teachers, and party hosts around the world, with a community of over 1 million followers across social media. Britni has been featured in Good Housekeeping, Southern Living, Better Homes and Gardens, CountryLiving, and Disney. She graduated with a BA in English and worked as a PMP certified project manager before founding PlayPartyPlan.com. Nonprofit Organizations Direct Relief Humanitarian Aid Organization Direct Relief is an award-winning humanitarian aid organization, active in all 50 states and more than 80 countries. They focus on helping people affected by emergencies and natural disasters. Direct Relief has been highly rated by Charity Navigator, GuideStar, and the Center for High Impact Philanthropy at University of Pennsylvania, for their effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency. Mental Health America Non-Profit Organization Mental Health America is the nation's leading community-based nonprofit dedicated to addressing the needs of those living with mental illness and promoting overall mental health for all. Their work is guided by the Before Stage 4 philosophy – that mental health conditions should be treated long before they reach the most critical points in the disease process. Vote.org Nonpartisan Voter Turnout Organization Vote.org is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that uses technology to simplify political engagement, increase voter turnout, and strengthen American democracy. In particular, it aims to reach underserved voters, and has established itself as one of the most trusted and acessible online resources for registering to vote and understanding how to cast your ballot. The Verified Initiative of the United Nations Fact-Based Information Source Verified is an initiative of the United Nations, to provide content that cuts through the noise to deliver life-saving information, fact-based advice and stories from the best of humanity. Led by the UN Department for Global Communications, the initiative invites the public to help counter the spread of false narratives across key global issues by sharing UN-verified, science-based content with their communities through articles, videos, and associated media. The initiative is a collaboration with Purpose, one of the world’s leading social impact organizations, and has been supported by a number of collaborators including Rockefeller Foundation, IKEA Foundation, Luminate, TikTok, and Fortescue. Carbonfund Carbon Offset & Environmental Education Company Carbonfund, powered by ClimeCo, is a Carbon Offset and Environmental Education Company based in Pennsylvania. Carbonfund is leading the fight against climate change, making it easy and affordable for any individual, business, or organization to reduce and offset their climate impact and hasten the transition to a clean energy future. Carbonfund achieves its goals through climate change education, carbon offsets and reductions, and public outreach. One Tree Planted Global Reforestation Nonprofit One Tree Planted is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit on a mission to make it simple for anyone to help the environment by planting trees. Their projects span the globe and are done in partnership with local communities and knowledgeable experts to benefit nature, people, and wildlife. Since 2014, One Tree Planted has planted over 40 million trees across the globe. United Nations Foundation International Humanitarian Organization The United Nations Foundation brings together the ideas, people, and resources the United Nations needs to drive global progress and tackle urgent problems. The UN Foundation’s hallmark is to collaborate for lasting change and innovate to address humanity’s greatest challenges. The UN Foundation focuses on issues with transformative potential, including Climate, Energy and Environment; Girls and Women; Global Health; and Data and Technology. Crisis Text Line 24/7 Crisis Counseling Crisis Text Line provides free, 24/7 crisis support via text. Those in crisis can text 741741 to be connected with a trained Crisis Counselor. They've exchanged over 100 million messages with people in crisis around the US and are rapidly expanding. World Health Organization Global Public Health Agency The World Health Organization (WHO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations responsible for international public health. Founded in 1948, the World Health Organization monitors public health risks, promotes health and well-being, and coordinates international public health cooperation and emergency response. The WHO is currently leading and coordinating the global effort supporting countries to prevent, detect, and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. AdoptAClassroom.org Educational Non-Profit AdoptAClassroom.org is an award-winning nonprofit that provides funding for K-12 teachers and schools throughout the US. Through this funding, they have reached over 4.5 million students. Today, they hold a top, 4-Star rating from Charity Navigator. Palo Alto Humane Society Animal Welfare Non-Profit The Palo Alto Humane Society is a 501(c) 3 nonprofit, charitable, volunteer-supported organization based in Palo Alto, California, with nationwide education initiatives. PAHS has worked to keep animals out of the shelter for over 100 years, through humane programs in intervention, advocacy, and education. Their mission is to alleviate the suffering of animals, increase public sensitivity to animal issues, and elevate the status of animals in our society. Disaster Distress Helpline 24/7 Crisis Counseling The Disaster Distress Helpline, 1-800-985-5990, is a 24/7, 365-day-a-year, national hotline dedicated to providing immediate crisis counseling for people who are experiencing emotional distress related to any natural or human-caused disaster. This toll-free, multilingual, and confidential crisis support service is available to all residents in the United States and its territories. Stress, anxiety, and other depression-like symptoms are common reactions after a disaster. Call 1-800-985-5990 or text TalkWithUs to 66746 to connect with a trained crisis counselor. YMCA Community-Building Nonprofit Driven by its founding mission, the YMCA (Y) has served as a leading nonprofit committed to strengthening community for more than 175 years. The Y empowers everyone, no matter who they are or where they’re from, by ensuring access to resources, relationships, and opportunities for all to learn, grow, and thrive. By bringing together people from different backgrounds, perspectives, and generations, the Y’s goal is to improve overall health and well-being, ignite youth empowerment, and demonstrate the importance of connections in and across 10,000 communities nationwide. Learn more at ymca.org. Action Against Hunger World Hunger Organization Action Against Hunger is a global humanitarian organization working to create a better way to deal with hunger. For over 40 years, Action Against Hunger has led a global movement with 7,500 field staff in over 50 countries to ensure everyone can access clean water, food, training, and healthcare. They have earned the highest four-star rating from Charity Navigator for 13 years in a row, listed as an “A”-rated organization by CharityWatch, and have been awarded the “Best in America” seal by the Independent Charities of America. Feeding America Hunger Relief Organization Feeding America is committed to an America where no one is hungry. They support tens of millions of people who experience food insecurity to get the food and resources they say they need to thrive as part of a nationwide network of food banks, statewide food bank associations, food pantries, and meal programs.They also invest in innovative solutions to increase equitable access to nutritious food, advocate for legislation that improves food security, and work to address factors that impact food security, such as health, cost of living, and employment. They partner with people experiencing food insecurity, policymakers, organizations, and supporters, united with them in a movement to end hunger. Water.org Humanitarian Aid Organization Water.org is an international nonprofit organization that has positively transformed millions of lives around the world through access to safe water and sanitation. Founded by Gary White and Matt Damon, Water.org pioneers market-driven solutions to the global water crisis — breaking down barriers to give women hope, children health and families a bright future. World Wildlife Fund Conservation Nonprofit World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is a U.S. public charity whose mission is to leverage sound science to conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Earth. WWF was established in 1961, and since then, WWF in the U.S. has grown to include over 1 million supporters and has helped lead conservation projects in Alaska, the Northern Great Plains, and around the world. As one of the world’s leading conservation organizations, WWF works in nearly 100 countries. They collaborate with people around the world to develop and deliver innovative solutions that protect communities, wildlife, and the places in which they live. They work to help local communities conserve the natural resources they depend upon, transform markets and policies toward sustainability, and protect and restore species and their habitats. Their efforts ensure that the value of nature is reflected in decision-making from a local to a global scale. WWF connects cutting-edge conservation science with its five million global supporters, as well as the collective power of its partnerships with communities, companies, and governments. Learn more at worldwildlife.org. wikiHow Content Team Managers Katie Double Tech Specialist Katie Double is a Technology Writer and Editor for wikiHow. She has over five years of experience in technical support, IT process analysis, and quantitative research. Katie loves exploring the application of various technological tools, from data analysis and visualization to music production and performance. Though originally from Denver, Colorado, she currently resides in New Zealand. She has a BA in Psychology from the University of Colorado Boulder. Thomas Churchill BA in International Relations, Stanford University Thomas Churchill graduated from Stanford in 2018 with a BA in International Relations. Thomas directs the Notable Co-Author Project, an effort to recruit and connect professional expertise with wikiHow articles and the platform’s greater community. Thomas is passionate about empowering people of all backgrounds to learn about any topic, and he works to create the best advice possible for users around the world. Chris Hadley, PhD PhD in Cognitive Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles Chris Hadley earned his PhD in Cognitive Psychology from UCLA in 2006. Chris' research has been published in numerous scientific journals. During his time at UCLA, he was awarded a Kirschstein-NRSA Fellowship from the National Institutes of Health to fund his doctoral research. Chris has worked on improving content quality at wikiHow since 2007. His role on the content team focuses on quality control and content innovation. He works with our editors to ensure accuracy on all wikiHow articles, as well as advising on content strategy. Kyle Hall wikiHow Staff Writer Kyle Hall works on the content team at wikiHow. He helps manage our team of editors and creates content for a variety of wikiHow projects. Kyle continually looks for new ways to improve the content at wikiHow and make it more helpful and enjoyable for readers. He graduated from Eckerd College in 2015, where he majored in Political Science. Dev Murphy, MA wikiHow Staff Writer Dev Murphy is a wikiHow Staff Writer with experience working as a teacher, ghostwriter, copyeditor, and illustrator. She loves writing how-to articles because she loves learning new things and because she believes knowledge should be free and accessible to the world. Dev's creative writing and visual art have been featured in many venues online and in print. When she is not writing for wikiHow, she is drawing pictures, making perfume, or writing hybrid poems. Dev earned her MA in English Literature from Ohio University in 2017. She lives in Pittsburgh with her cat, Nick. Annabelle Reyes wikiHow Staff Writer Annabelle earned her B.A. in English with departmental honors from UCLA in 2020. Her writing has appeared in various online publications and magazines. She now writes and edits for the content team at wikiHow with the goal of making expert knowledge accessible to anyone. She loves learning, and she is passionate about writing clear, accessible, and enjoyable content for all of wikiHow’s readers. Kira Jan wikiHow Staff Writer Kira Jan earned her B.A. in English from Stanford University in 2021. She has published work in a variety of literary magazines and edited for bestselling authors. Kira now writes and edits for the content team at wikiHow with the goal of reaching audiences of all backgrounds, skillsets, and interests. She enjoys continually learning alongside wikiHow readers and working to create connection through the written word. Sophie Burkholder, BA wikiHow Staff Writer Sophie Burkholder graduated from Boston University in 2020 with dual degrees in Spanish and Modern Foreign Language Education. For three years, Sophie worked as a classroom teacher and strived to foster a love of learning and self-empowerment in her students. With that same purpose but a new audience, she now writes for the content team at wikiHow. She's passionate about giving readers the tools they need for any goal, big or small. Katiana Uyemura BA in English, Stanford University Katiana Uyemura finished her undergraduate career at Stanford University in 2019, where she majored in English with an emphasis in creative writing. She has been published in several literary magazines and news publications, and has won various writing competitions and grants. At wikiHow, Katiana oversees the work of writers and editors, as well as fine-tuning and developing new, innovative methods of sharing content with readers worldwide. Jack Lloyd wikiHow Technology Writer Jack Lloyd is a Technology Writer and Editor for wikiHow. He has over two years of experience writing and editing technology-related articles. He is technology enthusiast and an English teacher. Krystle Blough Director of Growth at wikiHow Krystle Blough is the Director of Growth at wikiHow. She has over 15 years of experience working in the tech industry including roles in community, content, marketing, and customer experience. Krystle received her BA in Environmental Science from the State University of New York. Natalie Harrington BA in Political Science, Santa Clara University Natalie Harrington graduated from Santa Clara University in 2015 with a double major in Psychology and Political Science. She spent her years after graduation teaching in Spain and working as a Project Manager in both the nonprofit and technology sectors in the United States. She came to wikiHow in 2020 to co-manage the Notable Co-Author Project. Natalie is passionate about connecting wikiHow’s readers with expert knowledge in an effort to further promote learning and discovery. Sophia Bell wikiHow Staff Writer Sophia Bell is a Content Manager on the wikiHow team. Before joining wikiHow, Sophia worked as a technical editor and was published in six International Energy Agency (IEA) Wind Annual Reports. Now, she writes, edits, and reviews articles for the wikiHow Content Team, working to make the content as helpful as possible for readers worldwide. Sophia holds a BA in English from Colorado State University. Aly Rusciano wikiHow Staff Writer Aly Rusciano is a Creative Writer based outside of Nashville, Tennessee. She has over ten years of experience in creative, academic, and professional writing. Aly’s writing has been nationally recognized in the Sigma Tau Delta Rectangle and featured in Blue Marble Review, The Sunshine Review, PopMatters, and Cathartic Literary Magazine. She graduated from The University of Tennessee at Martin with a BA in English, focusing in Creative Writing and minoring in Theatre. Jessica Gibson wikiHow Staff Writer Jessica Gibson is a Writer and Editor who's been with wikiHow since 2014. After completing a year of art studies at the Emily Carr University in Vancouver, she graduated from Columbia College with a BA in History. Jessica also completed an MA in History from The University of Oregon in 2013. Kai Hynes wikiHow Staff Writer Kai Hynes is a Writing Fellow from San Jose, California, currently residing in Portland, Oregon. In addition to writing for wikiHow, Kai works as a theatre actor and performance artist. Kai holds a BA in English and Theatre from The University of Portland. Megaera Lorenz, PhD wikiHow Staff Writer Megaera Lorenz is an Egyptologist and Writer with over 20 years of experience in public education. In 2017, she graduated with her PhD in Egyptology from The University of Chicago, where she served for several years as a content advisor and program facilitator for the Oriental Institute Museum’s Public Education office. She has also developed and taught Egyptology courses at The University of Chicago and Loyola University Chicago. Christopher M. Osborne, PhD wikiHow Staff Writer Christopher Osborne has been a wikiHow Content Creator since 2015. He is also a historian who holds a PhD from The University of Notre Dame and has taught at universities in and around Pittsburgh, PA. His scholarly publications and presentations focus on his research interests in early American history, but Chris also enjoys the challenges and rewards of writing wikiHow articles on a wide range of subjects. Danielle Blinka, MA, MPA wikiHow Staff Writer Danielle Blinka is a Writer, Editor, Podcaster, Improv Performer, and Artist currently living in Houston, TX. She also has experience teaching English and writing to others. Danielle holds a Bachelor of Arts in English, Bachelor of Arts in Political Science, Master of Arts in English with a concentration in writing, and Master of Public Administration from Lamar University. Nihal Shetty wikiHow Staff Writer Nihal Shetty is a Writer and Editing Fellow at wikiHow who splits his time between Michigan and Mexico City. Before his role at wikiHow, he was an instructor of Russian literature at the University of California, Berkeley. Nihal received a BA in Comparative Literature from Columbia University and an MA in Russian at Berkeley. Glenn Carreau wikiHow Staff Writer Glenn Carreau is a wikiHow Staff Writer, currently based in Los Angeles. With over four years of experience writing for several online publications, she has covered topics ranging from world history to the entertainment industry. Glenn graduated with honors from Columbia College Chicago, earning a B.A. in Interactive Arts and Media and a minor in Professional Writing. Today, Glenn continues to feed her lifelong love of learning while serving wikiHow's many readers. Dan Hickey wikiHow Staff Writer Dan Hickey is a Writer and Humorist based in Chicago, Illinois. He has published pieces on a variety of online satire sites and has been a member of the wikiHow team since 2022. A former teaching artist at a community music school, Dan enjoys helping people learn new skills they never thought they could master. He graduated with a BM in Clarinet Performance from DePauw University in 2015 and an MM from DePaul University in 2017. Caroline Heiderscheit wikiHow Staff Writer Caroline Heiderscheit is a Staff Writer for wikiHow living in Santa Monica, CA. She has two years of experience working in content, including a year of editing work for first-time novelists. Caroline graduated from Stanford University in 2018 with degrees in American Studies and Creative Writing. Drew Hawkins wikiHow Staff Writer Drew Hawkins is a Writer and Journalist from South Louisiana. He's also the Producer and Host of Micro, a podcast featuring short fiction, CNF, and poetry read by the author. Drew attended Lousiana State University (LSU), where he earned a BA in Creative Writing. He’s currently pursuing a Master's Degree in Mass Communication and Journalism from LSU. His writing has been published in The Guardian, Southerly, Scalawag Magazine, HAD, among other publications. Krysten Jackson wikiHow Staff Writer Krysten Jackson is a Chicago-based writer with a love of language and learning. She has contributed her editing skills to multiple content teams and publishing houses. Now, Krysten writes for wikiHow as an Editing Fellow, hoping to help others while they explore new topics and skills. Krysten graduated from Northwestern University in 2019 with a B.A. in English, focusing on Creative Writing and Linguistics. Kyle Smith wikiHow Technology Writer Kyle Smith is a wikiHow Technology Writer, learning and sharing information about the latest technology. He has presented his research at multiple engineering conferences and is the writer and editor of hundreds of online electronics repair guides. Kyle received a BS in Industrial Engineering from Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo. Rain Kengly wikiHow Technology Writer Rain is a tech writer and editor for wikiHow with over 5 years of professional writing experience. In the past, Rain has worked with other creative writers as a Writing Tutor at San Francisco State University and has published gaming features, guides, and news articles for a variety of media outlets. Rain shares a lifelong passion for writing and gaming and is eager to grow alongside new tech inventions. PaJah Vang wikiHow 2022 Intern PaJah Vang earned her B.A. in English from Stanford University in 2022. She has strong interests in writing, public service, accessibility, and education. During her time at wikiHow, she worked on the content team where she wrote and edited articles. PaJah thoroughly enjoyed her time at wikiHow, and continues to work towards making information, resources, and education more accessible for all. Luke Smith, MFA wikiHow Staff Writer Luke Smith is a wikiHow Staff Writer. He's worked for literary agents, publishing houses, and with many authors, and his writing has been featured in a number of literary magazines. Now, Luke writes for the content team at wikiHow and hopes to help readers expand both their skillsets and the bounds of their curiosity. Luke earned his MFA from the University of Montana. Devin McSween wikiHow Staff Writer Devin McSween is a wikiHow Staff Writer. With a background in psychology, she has presented her research in social psychology at a variety of conferences and has contributed to several manuscripts for publication. At wikiHow, Devin combines her love of writing and research with the goal of bringing accessible information to wikiHow readers that will help them learn and grow. She earned her BS in Psychology from the College of Charleston. Bailey Cho wikiHow Staff Writer Bailey Cho is an Editing Fellow at wikiHow, based in Dallas, TX. She has over 2 years of editorial experience, with work published in student journals and lifestyle publications. Bailey graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a B.A. in Advertising and a Minor in Business. Johnathan Fuentes wikiHow Staff Writer Johnathan Fuentes is a writer based in the New York City region. His interests as a writer include space exploration, science education, immigration, Latinx cultures, LGBTQ+ issues, and long-form journalism. He is also an avid hiker and has backpacked in Alaska and Newfoundland, Canada. A son of Cuban immigrants, he is bilingual in English and Spanish. Prior to joining wikiHow, he worked in academic publishing and was a freelance writer for science websites. He graduated from Columbia University in 2021, where he studied nonfiction writing and wrote for the student newspaper. He is currently counting down the seconds until the release of Kerbal Space Program 2 in 2023—a game that will almost certainly take up what little free time he has. Maureen Wilson wikiHow Staff Writer Maureen created online DIY tutorials for a decade before becoming a published author of six books. Her books cover a range of topics such as introversion, hand lettering, and mental health. She’s also worked as a B2B marketing writer, advertising copywriter, and editor. Now she’s returned to her first love: compiling instructional online content that empowers people to try new things. Maureen appreciates the way wikiHow makes teaching and learning a continual, collaborative endeavor, and she is pleased to be a part of the wikiHow writing team. Ali Garbacz, B.A. wikiHow Staff Writer Ali earned her B.A. in Linguistics and Asian Languages and Cultures with a focus on East Asia from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2022. She has published articles centering around culture and history for non-profits and has also done news writing for an online news site. Ali now writes as an editor at wikiHow with the hopes of becoming a part in helping to achieve wikiHow’s goal of teaching everyone to do anything. She enjoys the process of researching and learning new things to share with readers and creating content that is both informative and fun. Finn Kobler wikiHow Staff Writer Finn Kobler graduated from USC in 2022 with a BFA in Writing for Screen/Television. He is a two-time California State Champion and record holder in Original Prose/Poetry, a 2018 finalist for the Los Angeles Youth Poet Laureate, and he's written micro-budget films that have been screened in over 150 theaters nationwide. Growing up, Finn spent every summer helping his family's nonprofit arts program, Showdown Stage Company, empower people through accessible media. He hopes to continue that mission with his writing at wikiHow. Madeline Ryan, B.S. wikiHow Staff Writer Madeline Ryan graduated from the University of Oregon in 2023 where she earned B.S. degrees in both Journalism and Public Relations. She has a range of journalism experience from student magazines to international athletics news publications. Madeline’s lifelong excitement for the craft of writing has driven her to work where she can produce writing that is accessible, clear, and well-researched for all readers. Sam Waddoups wikiHow Staff Writer Sam Waddoups is a content writer at wikiHow living in Palo Alto, CA. He has three years of writing and editing experience, including working as a writing tutor and publishing articles in various publications, including the Stanford Daily and the Oxonian Review. Sam graduated from Stanford University in 2023 with degrees in Linguistics and English literature. Hannah Dillon wikiHow Technology Writer Hannah Dillon is a Technology Writer and Editor at wikiHow. She graduated with a B.A. in Journalism from North Dakota State University in 2013 and has since worked in the video game industry as well as a few newspapers. From a young age Hannah has cultivated a love for writing and technology, and hopes to use these passions in tandem to help others in the articles she writes for wikiHow. Carmine Shannon wikiHow Staff Writer Carmine Shannon graduated with a B.A. in Japanese from Wellesley College in 2022. They have worked as an editor for independent literary magazines and published work on poetry and creativity. Carmine now writes and edits articles for wikiHow to expand accessibility on every topic under the sun. They’re a lifelong learner who is excited to share knowledge with the world and explore the niches they will be taken to. Cheyenne Main wikiHow Staff Writer Cheyenne Main is an Editing Fellow at wikiHow, currently living in Kansas City. She has over four years of editorial experience, with work published in a variety of literary magazines. In 2023, she graduated from Cottey College with a BA in English and History. Now, Cheyenne loves learning new topics and helping to create well-researched, accessible resources for readers. Mason Martinez, BA wikiHow Staff Writer Mason Martinez earned their BA in Creative Writing and Literature from Purchase College. Their work has been published and awarded in various literary magazines and writing residencies. At wikiHow, Mason writes for the content team to help people from all walks of life to tackle anything they set their mind to. They are a firm believer in knowledge and growth, and they hope to spread that passion through engaging content and storytelling. Raven Minyard, BA wikiHow Staff Writer Raven Minyard received her BA in English and Creative Writing from Sweet Briar College in 2020. While in college, she served as the Coeditor-in-Chief of Sweet Briar's literary magazine Red Clay and has since gone on to write for publications such as The Zillennial Zine and Halloween Every Night. Raven recalls reading articles from wikiHow's early days during her childhood and is thrilled to now write for their content team. She enjoys learning about new interests and topics with each article she writes and hopes to help audiences of all backgrounds continue to learn new and exciting things. Aimee Payne, MFA wikiHow Staff Writer Aimee Payne is a writer and editor living in Jacksonville, Florida. For more than 10 years, she has created informative and engaging marketing content for the insurance, collectibles, and apparel industries. She has a BA from Otterbein University where she studied English Literature and Music, and an MFA in Writing from Vermont College of Fine Arts. Annie Johnston wikiHow Staff Writer Annie has been writing professionally for 9 years. She developed, wrote, and edited the newsletter for Philip Pelusi salons in Pittsburgh for 5 years before joining Static Media in 2022 as a Lifestyle Writer. Maryana Lucia Vestic, MFA, M.Phil. wikiHow Staff Writer Maryana Lucia Vestic is a staff writer at wikiHow. She holds a BFA in Film and TV Production from NYU's Tisch School of the Arts, an M.Phil. in Irish Theatre Studies from Trinity College Dublin, and an MFA in Creative Writing (Nonfiction) from The New School. She has published articles for online publications, including Vice (Tonic), Porridge Magazine, and Tasting Table. Maryana writes and edits for the wikiHow content team on a number of topics she loves learning more about while helping others become more knowledgeable. Maryana is an expert in food, drink, cooking, and baking everything under the sun. Elaine Heredia, BA wikiHow Staff Writer Elaine Heredia is a staff writer at wikiHow. Elaine graduated with a B.A. in English from Texas Tech University in 2017. Since 2020, she has been writing articles on a wide variety of topics for a diverse range of clients, from business thought leaders to marketers to hobby shop owners. Elaine now writes and edits content at wikiHow, where her goal is to craft useful, enjoyable articles that answer readers’ most pressing queries. She enjoys expanding her knowledge alongside wikiHow readers and adding new topics of interest to her writing quiver. Marcus Pruitt, BS wikiHow Staff Writer Marcus Pruitt is a staff writer at wikiHow. Marcus earned his B.S. in Journalism from Illinois State University in 2023. He has been all around Chicago’s creative scene, writing about up-and-coming artists, musicians, and designers for small publications before moving on to independent writing. As an independent writer, Pruitt has focused on topics like mental health, social justice, and media representation. His documentary, Portrait of Jelani: Grief, Art & Memory, won the Audience Choice Award at the 2023 Foxtail Film Festival. Throughout his career, Pruitt has written with the purpose of helping others, which landed him at wikiHow. Here, he enjoys writing articles that make the big ideas in readers’ lives easier to navigate. Bailey Bujnosek, BA wikiHow Staff Writer Bailey Bujnosek is a writer from California. She earned her B.A. in Literature in English and her B.S. in Psychology from the University of California, San Diego. Her essays, articles, and interviews have appeared in Nylon, Highsnobiety, V, Teen Vogue, and elsewhere. She has also published creative work in various literary journals. Bertha Isabel Crombet, PhD wikiHow Staff Writer Bertha Isabel Crombet earned her MFA in Creative Writing from Florida International University in 2018. In 2024, she graduated with her PhD in the same field, with a minor in Latinx Studies from Florida State University. She's been a college professor for almost a decade, teaching courses in English, Literature, and Writing. She's also been published across multiple genres and literary platforms. A lifelong lover of learning, she now writes for wikiHow with the hope of imparting knowledge to others. Midge Lee, BSN, RN wikiHow Staff Writer Midge Lee is a writer and digital content specialist living in Long Beach, CA. She has two years of experience working in SEO, social media, and content. Midge graduated from the University of Florida in 2015 with a degree in Nursing. Her previous career included working in the Burn ICU and ER, along with a brief foray into travel nursing before shifting careers. Isabel Spahn wikiHow Staff Writer Isabel Spahn received her B.A. in Literature from Towson University. She's written for multiple organizations, including Healthline, Medical News Today, PsychCentral, and more. She loves transforming complex subjects into practical, trustworthy guidance.