https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lug_wrench

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of socket wrench used to loosen and tighten lug nuts on automobile wheels Not to be confused with tire iron . "Wheel brace" redirects here. For the drill, see Wheel brace (drill) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Lug wrench" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( April 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Spider-type lug wrench An ambulance driver using a lug wrench, 1940 A lug wrench , also colloquially known as a tire iron , is the name for a type of socket wrench used to loosen and tighten lug nuts on automobile wheels . In the United Kingdom and Australia, it is commonly known as a wheel brace . Forms [ edit ] Lug wrenches may be L-shaped, or X-shaped. The form commonly found in car trunks is an L-shaped metal rod with a socket wrench on the bent end and a prying tip on the other end. The prying tip is mainly intended to remove hub caps or wheel covers that may be covering a wheel's lug nuts . Another common type, sometimes called a spider wrench , is made in the shape of a cross with different sized sockets on each of the four ends. Other names are four way wheel wrench , spanner , brace , or cross . Technique [ edit ] This section possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( April 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A lug wrench Ideally, the nuts (or bolts) should be tightened with a torque wrench . Lug wrenches are much less expensive because they lack the ability to measure or limit the force used. Installing a wheel with a lug wrench thus requires a bit of rough guessing about proper tightness. Excessive force can strip threads or make the nuts very difficult to remove. Also, uneven torque between the various lug nuts, or excessive torque, can lead to warping of the brake rotor if the car is equipped with disc brakes . For this reason, impact wrenches should properly be used only for removing lug nuts, not for tightening them, although in practice this rule is often ignored for convenience's sake, even by professional mechanics. When re-fitting a wheel, the nuts (or bolts) should be tightened in a criss-cross pattern (to even out the forces) and initially should only be tightened "finger tight" on all nuts. In this context "finger tight" is tight enough to reach the point where free play is taken up and proper tightening is about to begin, say, the tightening force using the lug wrench/wheel brace like a screwdriver. This should be repeated twice, to ensure the wheel is properly centered and restrained by all nuts (as often the first nut that is tightened will be slightly loose after completing the set for the first time), then the wheel should be lowered to the ground and the criss-cross tightening pattern repeated to modest torque (say few fingers force on the lug wrench/wheel brace arm), and then finally repeated to full hand force. Rarely, and more often with large trucks and lorries, insufficient force can lead to the nuts coming undone while in use. Because of this, it is best to use a torque wrench or similar tool to finally tighten the wheel lug nuts to the proper torque specification as soon as possible after using a lug wrench to affix a wheel. At the very least, the lug nuts should be checked for tightness after 50–100 km/miles when things have been subject to some vibration and thermal cycling. This tool also has a secondary usage: it can be used to remove vehicles that are stuck in the snow by breaking up ice so it can be easily shovelled away from the drive wheels. [ 1 ] References [ edit ] ^ Williams, Evan (3 February 2022). "Stuck in the Snow? Here's How You Get Out (And How You Don't)" . Gear Junkie . Retrieved 2 September 2024 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Lug wrenches . Appropriate Tightening Sequence : Bolt-Science's example and explanation of using a criss-cross tightening sequence. v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lug_wrench&oldid=1325109095 " Categories : Tires Wrenches Automotive tools Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from April 2021 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from April 2021 All articles that may contain original research Commons category link is on Wikidata