https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Link_rot

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia How to prevent or repair broken links This page is about (primarily) link rot in external links . For broken section links within Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Database reports/Broken section anchors . For internal links which point to deleted or non-existent articles, see WP:REDLINKS . For other uses, see Wikipedia:Citing sources § Preventing and repairing dead links . "WP:LR" redirects here. For Lua requests, see Wikipedia:Lua requests . To request URL changes, see WP:Link rot/URL change requests . This help page is a how-to guide . It explains concepts or processes used by the Wikipedia community. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines , and may reflect varying levels of consensus . Shortcuts WP:LR WP:LR WP:404 WP:404 WP:ROT WP:ROT WP:BADLINK WP:BADLINK WP:LINKROT WP:LINKROT This page in a nutshell: Steps may be taken to reduce or repair dead external links. Do not remove citations simply because they have URLs which no longer work. Like most large websites , Wikipedia suffers from the phenomenon known as link rot , where external links become dead , as the linked web pages or complete websites disappear, change their content, or move without HTTP redirection. URLs have a median lifespan of about 1 year . Link rot is a significant danger to Wikipedia because of the reliability policy and source citation guideline. In general, do not delete cited information solely because the URL to the source does not work any longer . Tools, procedures, and processes are available as outlined in this document. Preventing link rot Shortcut WP:PLRT WP:PLRT Automatic archiving Links added by editors to the English Wikipedia mainspace are automatically saved to the Wayback Machine within about 24 hours (though in practice not every link is getting saved for reasons ranging from quirks of a website's code to robots.txt preventing a website from being archived). This is done with a program called "NoMore404" which Internet Archive runs and maintains; other language wiki sites are included. It monitors EventStreams API , extracts new external URLs and adds a snapshot to the Wayback. This system became active sometime after 2015, though previous efforts were also made. Also, sometime after 2012, archive.today (aka archive.is) attempted to archive all external links then existing on Wikipedia at that time. This was incomplete but a significant number of links were added to archive.today during this period making it a major archival source filling in gaps of coverage. Archive.today is still making some automated archives as of 2020, though the extent of coverage and frequency is unknown. As of 2025, there is a Wikipedia bot and tool called WP:IABOT that automates fixing link rot. It runs continuously, checking all articles on Wikipedia if a link is dead, adding archives to Wayback Machine (if not yet there), and replacing dead links in the wikitext with an archived version. This bot runs automatically but it can also be directed by end users through its web interface. It is available when viewing any page's history, located near the top of the page on the line of "External Tools", with the "Fix dead links" option. As of 2025, the periodic bot WP:WAYBACKMEDIC checks for link rot in the archive links themselves. Archive databases are dynamic: archives move or go missing, new ones are added, etc. This bot maintains existing archive links on English Wikipedia. It also archives resources on request at WP:URLREQ . It is a flexible tool that can carry out many custom jobs such as URL migration/move, usurped domains , soft-404 discovery and repair. Manual archiving Suggestions for ways to manually improve archiving: Avoid bare URLs . Use citation templates such as {{ cite web }} for citations, and {{ webarchive }} for external links sections. Use a web archiving service such as Internet Archive or Archive.today . A complete list  is available at WP:List of web archives on Wikipedia . Within citation templates, put the archive URL in |archive-url= and add an |archive-date= . If the link is still valid, include |url-status=live , otherwise set |url-status=dead . To add more than one archive URL, as extra insurance against provider outage, {{ webarchive }} accepts up to 10 archive provider URLs. The |format=addlarchives option produces output appropriate for trailing a CS1|2 template. e.g. {{cite web|archive-url=..}}{{webarchive|format=addlarchive|url1=..|url2=..|url3..}} will show 4 archive URLs (one from the cite web and three from the webarchive). If the link is still live but not yet archived, visit the web site of the archive service of your choice and request that the page be archived. Run WP:IABOT on pages via its user interface. Alternative methods Most citation templates have a |quote= parameter that can be used to store text quotes of the source material. This can be used to store a limited amount of text from the source within the citation template. This is especially useful for sources that cannot be archived with web archiving services. It can also provide insurance against failure of the chosen web archiving service. Storing the entire text of the source is not appropriate under fair use policies , so choose only the most important portions of the text that most support the assertions in the Wikipedia article. Where applicable, public domain materials can be copied to Wikisource . Talk page information To indicate that all used external links in an article have been successfully archived by the date of edit, you can add the template {{ Archived reflist }} at the top of the article's talk page , which renders as: As of November 2025, all cited online sources and external links in this article have been archived using the Internet Archive Wayback Machine , archive.today or another web archive . Repairing a usurped link Main page: Wikipedia:Link rot/Usurpations When a domain on the Internet expires, anyone is allowed to pay for and control that domain. Some organizations actively seek these domains and "usurp" them to create spam and scam sites. To repair an external link to one of these sites from Wikipedia, remove the link and replace it with an archived version of the original as described at Wikipedia:Link rot/Usurpations . There is an automated system for repairing links to entire usurped domains. See WP:URLREQ to register all links in a domain for usurpation treatment. Repairing a dead link Shortcut WP:DEADLINK WP:DEADLINK "WP:DEADLINK" redirects here. For the guideline on what to do when a link is dead (including potential removal of the cited material), see WP:DEADREF . There are several ways to try to repair a dead link, detailed below. In general, avoid removing citations (or cited material) simply because a URL no longer works, especially if the citation is formatted with other information (like a title, author, date and publication name) that could alternatively be used to find the source. Searching If the dead link includes enough information (article title, names, etc.) it is often possible to use it to find the web page at a different location, either on the same site or elsewhere. Often web pages simply move within the same site. A site index or site-specific search feature is a useful place to locate the moved page, searching for the title or other information. If these tools are not available, many Internet search engines allow a search on a specified site. For example, with Google add site:en.wikipedia.org to the search string to search English Wikipedia only. Occasionally changing http:// to http s :// works. Failing this, searching the Web for the page title can find alternative sites. Searching the Web for the data to support can find a different source. If you find a suitable new URL, then you can edit the parameters within the citation.  If the citation uses one of the common citation templates (e.g. {{ cite web }} , {{ cite news }} , {{ Citation }} ), you can: Change the |url= to point to the new URL; Change or add |access-date= to refer to the current date unless the new URL is a stable source with a publication date. Internet archives Check for archived versions at one of the many web archive services. The "Big 3" archive services are web.archive.org , webcitation.org and archive.today . These account for over 90% of all archives on Wikipedia, with web.archive.org being over 80% of all archive links. Other archive services are listed at WP:WEBARCHIVES . Add-ons (extensions) are available for most browsers to search for archived copies, with names such as Resurrect pages . Bookmarklets to check common archive sites for archives of the current page (all open in a new tab or window) Archive site Bookmarklet Archive.org javascript : void ( window . open ( 'https://web.archive.org/web/*/' + location . href )) UKGWA javascript : void ( window . open ( 'https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/*/' + location . href )) If multiple archive dates are available, use the one that is most likely to be the contents of the page seen by the editor who entered the reference on the |access-date= . If that parameter is not specified, a search of the article's revision history can be performed to determine when the link was added to the article. View the archive to verify that it contains valid page information. Usually dates closer to the time the link was placed in the Wikipedia page, or earlier, are more likely to show valid information. If you find a suitable archive URL, then you can add it to the citation.  If the citation uses one of the common templates (e.g. {{ cite web }} , {{ cite news }} , {{ Citation }} ), then you can edit as follows: Leave the |url= unchanged, pointing to the source URL. Add |archive-url= , pointing to the archive URL. Add |archive-date= , specifying the date when the archived copy was saved.  YYYY-MM-DD format is usually easiest but any format can be used. Add or change |url-status= .  Use |url-status=dead if the old URL does not work.  Use |url-status=unfit or |url-status=usurped if the old URL has been usurped for the purposes of spam, advertising, or is otherwise unsuitable (see WP:USURPURL ). Use |url-status=live if |url= still works and still gives the correct information, but you want to preemptively add an |archive-url= . Leave the |access-date= unchanged, referring to the date when a previous editor last accessed the |url= . Some editors believe that once a working |archive-url= has been established, the |access-date= parameter is redundant and should be removed. Mitigating a dead link Shortcut WP:MDLI WP:MDLI At times, all attempts to repair the link will be unsuccessful. In that event, consider finding an alternative source so that the loss of the original does not harm the verifiability of the article. Alternative sources about broad topics  are usually easily located. A simple search engine query might locate an appropriate alternative, but be extremely careful to avoid citing mirrors and forks of Wikipedia itself, which would violate Wikipedia:Verifiability . Sometimes, finding an appropriate source is not possible, or would require more extensive research techniques, such as a visit to a library or the use of a subscription-based database. If that is the case, consider consulting with Wikipedia editors at Wikipedia:WikiProject Resource Exchange , the Wikipedia:Village pump , or Wikipedia:Help desk . Also, consider contacting experts or other interested editors at a relevant WikiProject . Sometimes a link is dead because the website moved the URL (e.g. http://example.com moved to http://example.co.uk ). If you discover a URL change like this, please submit a request at WP:URLREQ for a url move. A bot will make the change. In general, the fact that a URL is broken does not mean that a source has ceased to exist entirely, and a broken URL in a citation does not mean it must be removed . See the guidance at WP:DEADREF for when it is appropriate to remove citations with dead links. Crucially, books, magazines, journals and other print sources exist offline , and continue to do so even if websites go down or change locations; the lack of a functioning URL for a book does nothing to decrease its value as a source for Wikipedia content. Permanently inaccessible convenience links for print sources can be removed, but the reference should be retained. Before removing a citation with a dead URL, consider whether it would be possible to track down the source without using the URL at all; if so, it should probably be kept. Keeping dead links Shortcut WP:KDL WP:KDL A dead, unarchived source URL may still be useful. Such a link indicates that information was (probably) verifiable in the past, and the link might provide another user with greater resources or expertise with enough information to find the reference. It could also return from the dead. With a dead link, it is possible to determine if it has been cited elsewhere, or to contact the person originally responsible for the source. For example, one could contact the Yale Computer Science department if http://www.cs.yale.edu/~EliYale/Defense-in-Depth-PhD-thesis.pdf [ dead link ] were dead. Place {{ dead link |date=December 2025}} after the dead citation, immediately before the </ref> tag if applicable, leaving the original link intact. Marking dead links signals to editors and to link rot bots that this link needs to be replaced with an archive link. Placing {{ dead link }} also auto-categorizes the article into Articles with dead external links project category, and into specific monthly date range category based on |date= parameter. Do not delete a citation just because it has been tagged with {{ dead link }} for a long time. Link rot on non-Wikimedia sites Shortcut WP:EXTERNALROT WP:EXTERNALROT Non-Wikimedia sites are also susceptible to link rot. Following a page move or page deletion , links to Wikipedia pages from other websites may break. In most page moves, a redirect will remain at the old page—this won't cause a problem. But if a page is completely deleted or usurped (i.e. replaced with other content) then link rot will have been caused on any external websites that link to it. Replacement of page content with a disambiguation page may still cause link rot, but is less harmful because a disambiguation page is essentially a type of soft redirect that will lead the reader to the required content. If a page is usurped with content for another subject that shares its name, a hatnote may be placed at the top that directs readers to the original content on its new page—this again is a type of soft redirect, but less obvious. In these cases, readers arriving from an external rotten link should be able to find what they're looking for, but the situation is best avoided as they would have to get there via an additional page, potentially giving a poor impression of both Wikipedia and the linking website. Because the Wikipedia software does not store Referer information , it will be impossible to tell how many external web pages will be affected by a move or deletion, but the risk of link rot will probably be greatest on older and higher profile pages. In truth, there is not a lot that can be done; maintenance of non-Wikimedia websites is not within the scope of being a Wikimedian, nor in most cases within our capability (although if they can be fixed, it would be helpful to do so). However, it may be good practice to think about the potential impact on other sites when deleting or moving Wikipedia pages, especially if no redirect or hatnote will remain. If a move or deletion is expected to cause significant damage, then this might be a factor to consider in WP:RM , WP:AFD and WP:RFD discussions, although other factors may carry more weight. Glossary Glossary of terms and concepts. See the book A Link Rot Bestiary . Beyond-404 . Conceptually and ideally, every link that is dead will return a status code of 404. In the wilds of the Internet, many pages that are "dead" can return other codes. This is the realm beyond-404, and often requires special tools and foreknowledge to detect and fix. It might account for 40% or more of all inoperable links. Some of the beyond-404 types are described in this glossary. Links can be combination of types, for example a URL that is: Mapped redirect --> Soft-404 --> Redirect --> Destination. Bot Blocker . Any kind of mechanism that prevents automated tools from detecting the status of a page. Most common are CloudFlare, rate limiters and IP blockers. Bot Blockers can cause false 404s. Hard-404 or Dead link . A page that returns 404 status code, a dead link. Soft-404 . A URL that redirects to a page with different content from the original. For example, https://example.com/page1.html redirects to https://example.com/home.html (redirection to home page). Soft-404s can be domain name squatters, blank pages, spam sites, bot blockers, rate limiters, the possibilities are endless. This is the most common type of "Beyond 404" dead link. Conceptually, the page does not return 404, but is also not returning the intended content, in effect a 404 and thus "soft". Methods of Soft-404 detection including foreknowledge, the redirect URL, the page title, and content on the page. Crunchy-404 . A URL that falls somewhere between a Soft-404 and Hard-404. The content is different from the original page, but it still has content relevant to the original. Depending on what information the reader seeks, it could be considered a dead link, or a live link, relative to the viewer. Redirect . A URL that automatically redirects to another page (301 or 302) Missing or Potential redirect .  A URL that is inoperable (404), but the desired page might exist on the live web at a different URL. It is missing redirect information. Mapped redirect . A missing redirect that has been successfully mapped to the destination URL. Whoever made the map determines what happens next. If the domain owner has the map, they create redirects on the live web that work for everyone. This process is called Redirect mapping . Third parties can attempt to build a map using other techniques such as ruled and inferred redirect mapping. Ruled and Inferred redirect mapping . Methods for mapping missing redirects. Ruled redirect mapping works by transformation rules eg. a rule to change ".co.uk" -> ".com". Inferred redirect mapping guesses what the new URL might be by parsing information from other sources, such as the |title= or |date= of a citation. An inferred mapped redirect might have multiple guesses that are added to an inference table which are checked until one is found to work. Archived or Ghost redirect . Redirect link rot. For example, a 301 header was deleted and became a 404, but the old 301 information is still preserved in the Wayback Machine. Useful to discover redirect information no longer on the live web. See also Ghostredir repo . Soft-200 or False 404 . A URL that appears to be dead but is actually live. This can be caused by bot blockers or a misconfiguration. URL Move (or Migration ). When a URL is moved from one scheme to another, for example migrating https://example.com/main.html to https://arthur.com/main.html .. the remote site changed domain names. Most of the time, sites will leave some of the old URLs behind and not migrate all of them, they typically turn into 404s and missing redirects. When making URL Move on Wikipedia it is thus imperative to verify the new URL works. When it is not possible to verify (such as a Bot Blocker) this is called a "Blind URL Move". Content drift . When content at a static URL changes with time. For example team rankings at https://espn.com/mlb/rangers/standings.html changes on a weekly basis. Weather and financial data are other classic examples. Even though the URL may be live, it is functionally dead, the page no longer displays the intended content, it is a variety of soft-404. See also Essays Wikipedia:Archive your sources Wikipedia:Build content to endure Wikipedia:Offline sources Tools and how-to guides Wikipedia:Link rot/URL change requests – request bot help to maintain URLs for a given domain name Help:Using the Wayback Machine – how-to guide Help:Using archive.today – how-to guide Special:LinkSearch – to find all the pages that contain a particular URL Note: LinkSearch can be imperfect. For a more precise search: insource:domain.com insource:/([.]|\/)domain[.]com/ . Wikipedia:Citing sources/Further considerations#Pre-emptive archiving – brief guide on how to use various archiving services Wikipedia:Citing sources#Preventing and repairing dead links Wikipedia:External links#Longevity of links – prescribes removal of dead URLs from the "External links" section Category:Articles with bare URLs for citations – the backlog of articles containing bare URLs at risk of link rot, sub-categorised by month Category:Articles with dead external links – the backlog of articles containing dead links, sub-categorised by month Bots InternetArchiveBot (IABot) – automatically fixes dead links whenever possible, and tags them when it isn't WaybackMedic -automatically fixes dead links that are difficult to determine, other general fixes User:Legobot – can mass tag links with {{ dead link }} . Requests can be made at User talk:Legoktm . External links Official Wayback add-on for Firefox and Chrome [ note 1 ] Resurrect Pages , a third-party add-on tool provides links to seven cache/archive websites upon coming across a dead link. (Firefox) Webcache , add-on for Opera. (discontinued; newer similar add-ons available) weblinkchecker.py —script from the Python Wikipedia Bot collection which finds broken external links. Link-dispenser a Toolforge tool that identifies dead links in citations Backlink Checker , to search for potential link rot on non-Wikimedia sites "Some URLs Are Immortal, Most Are Ephemeral" ( Archived 22 September 2024 at the Wayback Machine ), detailed analysis of URL lifespans Notes ^ "Save Pages in the Wayback Machine" . Internet Archive Help Center . 24 August 2018. [ dead link ] v t e Wikipedia essays (?) Essays on building, editing, and deleting content Philosophy Articles are more important than policy Articles must be written All Five Pillars are equally important Avoid vague introductions Civil POV pushing Cohesion Competence is required Concede lost arguments Dissent is not disloyalty Don't lie Don't search for objections Duty to comply Editing Wikipedia is like visiting a foreign country Editors will sometimes be wrong Eight simple rules for editing our encyclopedia Explanationism External criticism of Wikipedia Five pillars Here to build an encyclopedia Large language models Leave it to the experienced Levels of competence Levels of consensus Most ideas are bad Need Not broken is ugly Not editing because of Wikipedia restriction Not every article can be a Featured Article The one question Oversimplification Paradoxes Paraphrasing POV and OR from editors, sources, and fields Process is important Product, process, policy Purpose Reasonability rule Systemic bias There is no seniority Ten Simple Rules for Editing Wikipedia Tendentious editing The role of policies in collaborative anarchy The rules are principles Trifecta We are absolutely here to right great wrongs Wikipedia in brief Wikipedia is an encyclopedia Wikipedia is a community Wikipedia is not RationalWiki Article construction 100K featured articles Abandoned stubs Acronym overkill Adding images improves the encyclopedia Advanced text formatting Akin's Laws of Article Writing Alternatives to the "Expand" template Amnesia test A navbox on every page An unfinished house is a real problem Archive your sources Article revisions Articles have a half-life Autosizing images Avoid mission statements Be neutral in form Beef up that first revision Blind men and an elephant BOLD, revert, discuss cycle Build content to endure Cherrypicking Chesterton's fence Children's lit, adult new readers, & large-print books Citation overkill Citation underkill Common-style fallacy Concept cloud Creating controversial content Criticisms of society may be consistent with NPOV and reliability Dictionaries as sources Don't cite Wikipedia on Wikipedia Don't demolish the house while it's still being built Don't get hung up on minor details Don't hope the house will build itself Don't panic Don't "teach the controversy" Editing on mobile devices Editors are not mindreaders Encourage the newcomers Endorsements (commercial) Featured articles may have problems Formatting bilateral relations articles Formatting bilateral relations templates Fruit of the poisonous tree Give an article a chance How to write a featured article Identifying and using independent sources History sources Law sources Primary sources Science sources Style guides Tertiary sources Ignore STRONGNAT for date formats Introduction to structurism Link rot Mine a source Merge Test Minors and persons judged incompetent "Murder of" articles Not every story/event/disaster needs a biography Not everything needs a navbox Not everything needs a template Nothing is in stone Obtain peer review comments Organizing disambiguation pages by subject area Permastub Potential, not just current state Presentism Principle of Some Astonishment The problem with elegant variation Pro and con lists Printability Publicists Put a little effort into it Restoring part of a reverted edit Robotic editing Sham consensus Source your plot summaries Specialized-style fallacy Stublet Stub Makers Run an edit-a-thon Temporary versions of articles Tertiary-source fallacy There are no shortcuts to neutrality There is no deadline There is a deadline The deadline is now Try not to leave it a stub What is a reliable source Understanding Wikipedia's content standards Walled garden What an article should not include Wikipedia is a work in progress Wikipedia is not being written in an organized fashion The world will not end tomorrow Write the article first Writing better articles Writing article content Avoid thread mode Copyediting reception sections Coup Don't throw more litter onto the pile Gender-neutral language Myth vs fiction Proseline Reading in a flow state Turning biology research into a Wikipedia article Use our own words We shouldn't be able to figure out your opinions Write the article first Writing about women Writing better articles Removing or deleting content Adjectives in your recommendations AfD is not a war zone Arguments to avoid in deletion discussions Arguments to avoid in deletion reviews Arguments to avoid in image deletion discussions Arguments to make in deletion discussions Avoid repeated arguments Before commenting in a deletion discussion But there must be sources! Confusing arguments mean nothing Content removal Counting and sorting are not original research Delete or merge Delete the junk Deletion is not cleanup Does deletion help? Don't attack the nominator Don't confuse stub status with non-notability Don't overuse shortcuts to policy and guidelines to win your argument Emptying categories out of process Follow the leader How the presumption of notability works How to save an article nominated for deletion I just don't like it Identifying blatant advertising Identifying test edits Immunity Keep it concise Liar liar pants on fire No Encyclopedic Use Nothing Nothing is clear Overzealous deletion Relisting can be abusive Relist bias The Heymann Standard Unopposed AFD discussion Wikipedia is not Whack-A-Mole Why was the page I created deleted? What to do if your article gets tagged for speedy deletion When in doubt, hide it in the woodwork Zombie page Essays on civility The basics Accepting other users Apology Autistic editors Being right isn't enough Contributing to complicated discussions Divisiveness Don't retaliate Editors' pronouns Edit at your own pace Encouraging the newcomers Enjoy yourself Expect no thanks How to be civil Maintaining a friendly space Negotiation Obsessive–compulsive disorder editors Please say please Relationships with academic editors Thank you Too long; didn't read Truce Unblock perspectives We are all Wikipedians here You have a right to remain silent Philosophy A thank you never hurts A weak personal attack is still wrong Advice for hotheads An uncivil environment is a poor environment Be the glue Beware of the tigers! Civility warnings Deletion as revenge Duty to comply Failure Forgive and forget It's not the end of the world Nobody cares Most people who disagree with you on content are not vandals On Wikipedia no one knows I'm a dog Old-fashioned Wikipedian values Profanity, civility, and discussions Revert notification opt-out Shadowless Fists of Death! Staying cool when the editing gets hot The grey zone The last word There is no Divine Right of Editors Most ideas are bad Nothing is clear Reader The rules of polite discourse There is no common sense Two wrongs don't make a right Wikipedia clichés Wikipedia is not about winning Wikipedia should not be a monopoly Writing for the opponent Dos Assume good faith Assume the assumption of good faith Assume no clue Avoid personal remarks Avoid the word "vandal" Be excellent to one another Be pragmatic Beyond civility Call a spade a spade Candor Deny recognition Desist Discussing cruft Drop the stick and back slowly away from the horse carcass Encourage full discussions Get over it How to lose Imagine others complexly Just drop it Keep it concise Keep it down to earth Mind your own business Say "MOBY" Mutual withdrawal Read before commenting Read the room Settle the process first You can search, too Don'ts ALPHABETTISPAGHETTI Wikipedia:Because I can Civil POV pushing Cyberbullying Don't accuse someone of a personal attack for accusing of a personal attack Don't be a fanatic Don't be a jerk Don't be an ostrich Don't be ashamed Don't be a WikiBigot Don't be high-maintenance Don't be inconsiderate Don't be obnoxious Don't be prejudiced Don't be rude Don't be the Fun Police Don't bludgeon the process Don't call a spade a spade Don't call people by their real name Don't call the kettle black Don't call things cruft Don't come down like a ton of bricks Don't cry COI Don't demand that editors solve the problems they identify Don't eat the troll's food Don't fight fire with fire Don't give a fuck Don't help too much Don't ignore community consensus Don't knit beside the guillotine Don't make a smarmy valediction part of your signature Don't remind others of past misdeeds Don't shout Don't spite your face Don't take the bait Don't template the regulars Don't throw your toys out of the pram Do not insult the vandals Griefing Hate is disruptive Nationalist editing No angry mastodons just madmen No ableism No Nazis No racists No Confederates No queerphobia No, you can't have a pony Passive aggression POV railroad Superhatting There are no oracles There's no need to guess someone's preferred pronouns You can't squeeze blood from a turnip UPPERCASE WikiRelations WikiBullying WikiCrime WikiHarassment WikiHate WikiLawyering WikiLove WikiPeace Essays on neutrality Academic bias Activist Advocacy Avoid thread mode Be neutral in form Blind men and an elephant Cherrypicking Civil POV pushing Coatrack Controversial articles Creating controversial content Criticisms of society may be consistent with NPOV and reliability Criticism Describing points of view Don't "teach the controversy" Endorsements Let the reader decide Inaccuracy Myth vs fiction NPOV dispute Neutral and proportionate point of view Not Wikipedia's fault POV and OR from editors, sources, and fields Partisans Partisanship Presentism Pro and con lists Systemic bias Tendentious editing There are no shortcuts to neutrality Wikipedia:Truth We are absolutely here to right great wrongs We shouldn't be able to figure out your opinions What is fringe? Why Wikipedia cannot claim the Earth is not flat Wikipedia is not RationalWiki Essays on notability Advanced source searching All high schools can be notable Alternative outlets Arguments to avoid in deletion discussions Articles with a single source Avoid template creep Bare notability Big events make key participants notable Businesses with a single location But it's true! Common sourcing mistakes Clones Coatrack Discriminate vs indiscriminate information Drafts are not checked for notability or sanity Every snowflake is unique Existence ≠ Notability Existence does not prove notability Extracting the meaning of significant coverage Google searches and numbers How the presumption of notability works High schools Historical/Policy/Notability/Arguments Inclusion is not an indicator of notability Independent sources Inherent notability Insignificant Just because BFDI has an article doesn't mean you can add fancruft about it Masking the lack of notability Make stubs Minimum coverage News coverage does not decrease notability No amount of editing can overcome a lack of notability No one cares about your garage band No one really cares Notability and tornadoes Notability cannot be purchased Notability comparison test Notability is not a level playing field Notability is not a matter of opinion Notability is not relevance or reliability Notability means impact Notabilitymandering Not all Vocaloid songs deserve their own article Not every single thing Donald Trump does deserves an article Obscurity ≠ Lack of notability Offline sources One sentence does not an article make Other stuff exists Overreliance upon Google Perennial websites Popularity ≠ Notability Read the source Red flags of non-notability Reducing consensus to an algorithm Run-of-the-mill Solutions are mixtures and nothing else Significance is not a formula Source content comes first! Sources must be out-of-universe Subjective importance Third-party sources Trivial mentions Video links Vanispamcruftisement What BLP1E is not What is and is not routine coverage What notability is not What to include Why was BFDI not on Wikipedia? Wikipedia is not Crunchbase Wikipedia is not here to tell the world about your noble cause Wikipedia is not the place to post your résumé Two prongs of merit Humorous essays Adminitis Ain't no rules says a dog can't play basketball Akin's Laws of Article Writing Alternatives to edit warring ANI flu Anti-Wikipedian Anti-Wikipedianism Articlecountitis Asshole John rule Assume bad faith Assume faith Assume good wraith Assume stupidity Assume that everyone's assuming good faith, assuming that you are assuming good faith Avoid using the preview button Avoid using wikilinks Bad Jokes and Other Deleted Nonsense Barnstaritis Before they were notable Be the fun police BOLD, revert, revert, revert cycle Boston Tea Party Butterfly effect CaPiTaLiZaTiOn MuCh? Case against LLM-generated articles Complete bollocks Counting forks Counting juntas Crap Delete the main page Diffusing conflict Don't stuff beans up your nose Don't-give-a-fuckism Don't abbreviate "Wikipedia" as "Wiki"! Don't delete the main page Editcountitis Edits Per Day Editsummarisis Editing under the influence Embrace Stop Signs Emerson Fart Five Fs of Wikipedia Seven Ages of Editor, by Will E. Spear-Shake Go ahead, vandalize How many Wikipedians does it take to change a lightbulb? How to get away with UPE How to put up a straight pole by pushing it at an angle How to vandalize correctly How to win a citation war Ignore all essays Ignore all user warnings Ignore every single rule Is that even an essay? Keep beating the horse Mess with the templates My local pond Newcomers are delicious, so go ahead and bite them Legal vandalism List of jokes about Wikipedia LTTAUTMAOK No climbing the Reichstag dressed as Spider-Man No episcopal threats No one cares about your garage band No one really cares No, really No self attacks Notability is not eternal Oops Defense Play the game Please be a giant dick, so we can ban you Please bite the newbies Please do not murder the newcomers Pledge of Tranquility R-e-s-p-e-c-t Requests for medication Requirements for adminship Rouge admin Rouge editor Sarcasm is really helpful Sausages for tasting Spaling Muich? Template madness The Night Before Wikimas The first rule of Wikipedia The Five Pillars of Untruth Things that should not be surprising The WikiBible Watchlistitis We are deletionist! Why is BFDI on Wikipedia? Why you shouldn't write articles with ChatGPT, according to ChatGPT Wikipedia is an MMORPG Yes, falsely Yes legal threats Yes personal attacks You don't have to be mad to work here, but You should not write meaningless lists About essays About essays Essay guide Value of essays Difference between policies, guidelines and essays Don't cite essays as if they were policy Avoid writing redundant essays Finding an essay Quote your own essay Policies and guidelines About policies and guidelines Policies Guidelines How to contribute to Wikipedia guidance Policy writing is hard Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Link_rot&oldid=1323342482 " Categories : Wikipedia how-to Wikipedia maintenance Wikipedia essays about building the encyclopedia Hidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Webarchive template wayback links