https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universidade_de_S%C3%A3o_Paulo

Coordinates : 23°33′35″S 46°43′45″W ﻿ / ﻿ 23.55972°S 46.72917°W ﻿ / -23.55972; -46.72917 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Universidade de São Paulo ) Public state university in Brazil Not to be confused with Federal University of São Paulo . "São Paulo University" redirects here; not to be confused with São Paulo State University . University of São Paulo Universidade de São Paulo Coat of arms of the University of São Paulo Other name USP Motto Scientia Vinces Motto in English "Through knowledge you will conquer" Type Public university Established 25 January 1934 ; 91 years ago ( 1934-01-25 ) [ a ] Budget R$ 9.15 billion [ 2 ] Rector Carlos Gilberto Carlotti Junior Academic staff 5,306 [ 3 ] Administrative staff 12,607 [ 3 ] Students 97,325 [ 1 ] [ needs update ] Undergraduates 58,752 [ 3 ] Postgraduates 29,487 [ 3 ] Location São Paulo , Brazil 23°33′35″S 46°43′45″W ﻿ / ﻿ 23.55972°S 46.72917°W ﻿ / -23.55972; -46.72917 Campus Bauru , Lorena , Piracicaba , Pirassununga , Ribeirão Preto , Santos , São Carlos , São Paulo , São Sebastião Colors Primary blue , secondary blue and yellow Website usp.br The University of São Paulo ( Portuguese : Universidade de São Paulo , USP ) is a public research university in the Brazilian state of São Paulo , and the largest public university in Brazil. The university was founded on 25 January 1934, regrouping already existing schools in the state of São Paulo, such as the Law School , the Polytechnic School , and the College of Agriculture . The university's foundation in that year was marked by the creation of the Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Literature , and subsequently new departments. Currently, the university is involved in teaching, research, and university extension in all areas of knowledge, offering a broad range of courses. It has eleven campuses, four of them in the city of São Paulo . [ 4 ] The remaining campuses are in the cities of Bauru , Lorena , Piracicaba , Pirassununga , Ribeirão Preto and two in São Carlos . University of São Paulo alumni and faculty include past or present 13 Brazilian presidents , members of the National Congress , and founders and executives of notable Brazilian companies. Regarding research, the USP is among Brazil's largest research institutions, producing more than 25% of the scientific papers published by Brazilian researchers in high-quality conferences and journals. [ 5 ] History [ edit ] The Viscount of São Leopoldo, precursor of the São Paulo Law School , the oldest body of the University of São Paulo, in 1827 Armando de Sales Oliveira , intervenor of São Paulo and of the University of São Paulo, in 1934 After its defeat in the Constitutionalist Revolution , São Paulo needed institutional improvements. Therefore, in 1933, a group of businessmen founded the Free School of Sociology and Politics (ELSP) (the current Foundation of the School of Sociology and Politics in São Paulo). In 1934, the intervenor of São Paulo (which corresponded to the governor), Armando de Sales Oliveira, founded the University of São Paulo (USP). [ 6 ] That was one of the efforts to provide Brazil with modern administrative, educational, and military institutions in a period known as "the search for alternatives." One of the main initiatives included the founding, that same year, of the University of São Paulo. Its nucleus was the School of Philosophy, Sciences, and Languages, with professors from France, Italy, Spain, Germany, and other European countries. The ELSP (Escola Livre de Sociologia e Política) assumed the goal of administrative elites to form a new model in which they noted an increasing role of the state. At the same time, the USP (Universidade de São Paulo) focused on training teachers for secondary schools, experts in sciences, engineers, lawyers, physicians, and professors. The ELSP followed a sociological American model, while the USP used the French academic world as its primary source of inspiration. Foreign professors such as Claude Lévi-Strauss (France), Fernand Braudel (France), Roger Bastide (France), Robert H. Aubreton (France), Heinrich Rheinboldt (Germany), Paul Arbousse Bastide (France), Jean Magüé (France), Martial Gueroult (France), Emilio Willems (Germany), Donald Pierson (US), Gleb Vassielievich Wataghin ( Russia ), Pierre Monbeig (France), Giacomo Albanese ( Italy ), Luigi Fantappiè (Italy), Vilém Flusser (Czech Republic), Giuseppe Ungaretti (Italy) and Herbert Baldus (Germany), broadcast in various institutions new standards for teaching and research, creating new generations of scientists in Brazil . Since its foundation the USP received professors and researchers from all over the world, such as David Bohm (US), Giuseppe Occhialini (Italy), François Châtelet (France), Anatol Rosenfeld (Germany), Helmi Nasr (Egypt), Gérard Lebrun (France), Fritz Köberle ( Austria ), Alexander Grothendieck (France), and Heinz Dieter Heidemann (Germany). Origins [ edit ] The Faculty of Medicine in the early twentieth century. The Law School in 1880 during Pedro II's reign The University of São Paulo is the result of a combination of the newly founded School of Philosophy, Sciences and Languages (Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras, FFCL, currently the Faculty of Philosophy, Languages and Human Sciences – Faculdade de Filosofia, Letras e Ciências Humana s , FFLCH) [ 7 ] with the existing Polytechnic School of Engineering (founded in 1893), the Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculture ( Escola Superior de Agricultura Luiz de Queiroz ) (founded in 1901), the Medical School (founded in 1912), the traditional Law School (founded in 1827), the old School of Pharmacy and Dentistry (founded in 1898), the Institute of Astronomy, Geophysics and Atmospheric Sciences (founded in 1886), and the School of Veterinary Medicine (founded in 1919). [ 8 ] The FFCL emerged as the integrating element of the university, bringing together courses in various areas of knowledge. Also, in 1934, the School of Physical Education (sports science) of the State of São Paulo was created, the first civil school of physical education in Brazil, which would later be part of the university. In 1944, the Medical School opened its public hospital ( Hospital das Clínicas da Universidade de São Paulo ). The School of Engineering of Sao Carlos (EESC) emerged in the same year. In subsequent years, several other research units were also created, such as a second Medical School located in the city of Ribeirão Preto (São Paulo's inland) in 1952. [ 8 ] In the 1960s, the university gradually transferred the headquarters of some of its units to the City University Armando de Salles Oliveira , in São Paulo. In 1963, the Heart Institute of the University of São Paulo was founded. After that, new institutes and schools were created, for instance, the School of Journalism, Communications and Arts (ECA) in 1966. Over the years, some of the university's old departments were transformed into autonomous faculties or institutes, such as the Institute of Biomedical Sciences (ICB), the Institute of Geosciences (IGc), and the Institute of Biosciences (IB) in 1969. [ 8 ] Military dictatorship [ edit ] Students protesting against the military government in front of one of the university's buildings. During the 1970s and part of the 1980s, some critics believed that the USP underwent an intellectual dissection in terms of knowledge production and the quality of human resources. During the past decades, the university played an essential role in the discussion and dissemination of important political ideas that contributed to the democratization of the country, bringing together many leftist intellectuals (such as Florestan Fernandes , Boris Fausto, Paul Singer, Antonio Candido , Gioconda Mussolini among others). During the Brazilian dictatorship , a large number of professors from the USP were persecuted and even tortured – many were forced to leave the country. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] This slowed down scientific production in Brazil. [ 12 ] It also promoted a systematic increase in the total number of graduate vacancies, encouraged by the state government. The gap caused by the removal of teachers and students chased by the military regime was interrupted by the campaign of political amnesty in the early 1980s. Several units of the USP celebrated the return of their deposed professors, although many of them were rehired under different conditions (former full professors took new positions as assistant professors). [ 13 ] The most recent Architecture and Urbanism College 's building Expansion [ edit ] Parallel to the resulting intellectual emptiness of political repression in the 1960s-80s, academic units were fragmented; new faculties and institutes were created, resulting in new courses, new lines of research, and graduate programs . Originally conceived as the university's academic core – gathering itself the various fields of knowledge – the FFCL ( School of Philosophy, Sciences and Letters ) saw its departments gain autonomy and become separate units. The Institute of Physics was the first department to extricate itself from the old FFCL, followed by other natural science departments. In 2004, the university founded the Institute of International Relations to study global matters in a multidisciplinary environment (law, political science, economy, and history) with Brazilian and international students and professors ( International Exchange Program ). [ 14 ] In 2005, it was built in the East Zone of the city of São Paulo a new School of Arts, Sciences, and Humanities (EACH), taking a few courses that go beyond the traditional Brazilian university model and aim to diversify the areas of the consolidated institution. [22] On 21 March 2006, the USP approved the merger of a second School of Chemical Engineering (FAENQUIL) in the city of Lorena (rural area), at the Paraíba Valley ( State of São Paulo 's rural area), with about 1,600 students in total and of these 1,200 at graduation. In 2007, a second Law School was established in the city of Ribeirão Preto , also in the State of São Paulo 's countryside. [ 15 ] Academics [ edit ] Today, the USP has five hospitals and offers 247 undergraduate programs and 239 graduate programs in all areas of study. [ 16 ] The university houses altogether 24 museums and galleries – with half a million visitors a year – two theaters, a cinema, a TV channel and an orchestra. [ 16 ] The University of São Paulo welcomes people from all continents and stimulates this process via networks and consortiums ( International Office – USP ), such as Erasmus Mundus , Associação das Universidades de Língua Portuguesa, and Rede Magalhães (SMILE – Student Mobility in Latin America, Caribbean and Europe), among others. [ 17 ] Rankings [ edit ] University rankings Global – Overall ARWU World [ 18 ] 101-150 (2022) CWUR World [ 19 ] 109 (2023) CWTS World [ 20 ] 12 (2023) QS World [ 21 ] 108 (2026) THE World [ 22 ] 201–250 (2023) USNWR Global [ 23 ] =120 (2022-23) According to ARWU , the USP was classified in first place regarding the number of doctorates awarded during 2011. [ 24 ] USP is ranked among the top 70 universities in the world, in the Ranking "Top Universities by Reputation 2013" published by Times Higher Education . [ 25 ] According to the 2013 Academic Ranking of World Universities , the USP is placed in the group of the 101–151 top world universities. [ 26 ] According to the 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking , the University of São Paulo is ranked 7th in the world. [ 27 ] In the 2024 QS World University Rankings , [ 28 ] the University of São Paulo ranked 85th in the world and is ranked 1st in Latin America. [ 29 ] As of 2021, the University of São Paulo is the first Latin American institution in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings to be ranked at 201-250th. [ 30 ] Healthcare [ edit ] The Heart Institute of the University of São Paulo , part of the Clinics Hospital , the largest health complex in Latin America The USP operates four hospitals, among them University of São Paulo Medical School Public Hospital , the largest hospital complex in Latin America and the major teaching and training site for the university's Faculty of Medicine, [ 31 ] which is highly ranked within Latin America . [ 32 ] All of them are: University of São Paulo Medical School Public Hospital Heart Institute of the University of São Paulo Public Hospital of Ribeirão Preto Medical School Hospital de Reabilitação de Anomalias Craniofaciais – Centrinho Archived 29 June 2012 at the Wayback Machine Library system [ edit ] The Florestan Fernandes Library at the Faculty of Philosophy, Languages and Human Sciences . The USP has 42 libraries managed by the Integrated Library System ( SIB – Sistema Integrado de Bibliotecas in Portuguese), which is also responsible for the university's online system, DEDALUS. Dedalus is an online database that allows simultaneous consultation in all university libraries. It is also integrated into a system named Integrated Research, which integrates all online databases signed by the university. This makes academic research faster and provides researchers with easy access to international publications. [ citation needed ] Museums and art galleries [ edit ] The University of São Paulo manages a rich set of museums and art galleries , most of them located on the central campus in the city of São Paulo: Museu de Arte Contemporânea da Universidade de São Paulo (Museum of Contemporary Art) Museu Paulista (Historical Museum of São Paulo) Museu de Zoologia (Museum of Zoology) MAE-USP – Museu de Arqueologia e Etnologia ( Museum of Archeology and Ethnology ) Museu do Café Francisco Schmidt (Ribeirão Preto Campus) Panorama of the Museu do Ipiranga Academic career [ edit ] Aerial view of the university. The buildings on center are part of the IQ – Institute of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Pharmacy. Teaching Assistant (Auxiliar de Ensino)—MS-2 (must have a master's degree and be enrolled in a doctoral program). Undergraduate students can also be teaching assistants for a semester, with scholarships from each department. Professor Doctor (Professor Doutor) – MS-3 (must have a doctoral or equivalent degree). Associate Professor (Professor Associado) – MS-5 (must have a Livre Docente title; equivalent to the German Habilitation ). Full Professor (Professor Titular) – MS-6 (top rank, only MS-6 professors can hold positions such as the Dean of a Faculty/School or the university's Rector). Admissions [ edit ] The FUVEST building, where the main admission exams are managed. Brazilian students take the USP's entrance exam, the vestibular , which is prepared and administered by FUVEST (University Foundation for Vestibular), subject to regulations approved by the university's Undergraduate Studies Council. In 2012, 159,603 students signed up for Fuvest's vestibular for 10,982 openings. Candidates must take a multiple-choice test involving chemistry, physics, mathematics, biology, geography, history, Portuguese, and English. The second round of tests is written and specific to the chosen field of studies, including more in-depth questions in physics, chemistry, and mathematics for engineering; history, math, and geography for law; and so on. In-depth written Portuguese questions are required for all. More recently, students have also been able to access the university by taking the nationwide high school evaluation test, ENEM, through the Unified Selection System (SISU). Each undergraduate course manages the vacancies available for each admission process. International students may come through several exchange programs. In 2012, the USP hosted over 2,300 exchange students. Roughly a third of the international students are enrolled in humanities and social sciences, with another third in engineering courses. [ 33 ] The USP does not require its students, national or foreign, to pay any tuition, as its source of funding comes from the state of São Paulo. Organization [ edit ] Seat of the USP Rectory. The USP corresponds to the idea of "university" as a set of autonomous schools, institutes, and colleges, each responsible for one area of knowledge (the aforementioned thirty-six teaching, research, and extension). Like most Brazilian universities, it grants autonomy to its teaching, research, and extension units regarding the didactic organization and curricular definition of each of the courses, which often results in a considered excessive fragmentation of teaching and research and the disconnection between the knowledge produced in each of the units. Each unit is divided into departments. A department is usually responsible for one of the courses offered by the unit or for a specific search line. In the case of units with only one or two courses, departments are not responsible for the entire course but for a part of it. Due to the aforementioned fragmentation and decentralization of the university, it is common to see departments with similar profiles in different units, which raises criticism as to the effectiveness of public investments and duplication of efforts. Administration [ edit ] The administrative structure of the USP has in the Rectory its central organ, as well as in the Rector the main figure of the university. Subordinated to the Rectory are the four Pro-Rectorates, specialized agencies in each of the university's fields of activity: Pro-Rectorate (PRG), Post-Graduation Pro-Rectorate (PRPG), Pro-Rectory of Research (PRP) and Pro-Rectory of Culture and Extension (PRC). In recent years, there has been discussion about creating a Pro-Rectorate for Student Assistance, a subject that, according to critics, has always been considered secondary to the university's leaders. Panorama of the University City in São Paulo . In popular culture [ edit ] The USP is referenced in Bernardo Kucinski 's 2011 novel, K , a fictionalized account of the disappearance of an assistant lecturer in 1974 and her father's desperate attempt to find her. [ 34 ] See also [ edit ] List of state universities in Brazil List of University of São Paulo alumni List of University of São Paulo faculty Rankings of universities in Brazil Universidade Estadual de Campinas (Unicamp) Universidade Estadual Paulista Júlio de Mesquita Filho (Unesp) Universities and Higher Education in Brazil Notes [ edit ] ^ Since 11 August 1827 as a Law Academy . [ 1 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b "USP em Números 2020" . Retrieved 26 January 2022 . ^ "Orçamento da Universidade será de R$ 9,15 bilhões para o ano de 2025" . Jornal da USP . University of São Paulo . Retrieved 13 June 2025 . ^ a b c d "USP's Statistical Yearbook" . uspdigital.usp.br . University of São Paulo . Retrieved 13 June 2025 . ^ "COCESP" . Usp.br. Archived from the original on 5 January 2008 . Retrieved 20 September 2010 . ^ "Instituições públicas concentram as pesquisas científicas" . ANPEI. 20 June 2014. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013 . Retrieved 28 April 2016 . ^ "Conheça a história da criação da USP" . redeglobo.globo.com (in Brazilian Portuguese) . Retrieved 24 June 2017 . ^ "Research in Humanities – University of São Paulo" . Faculty of Philosophy, Languages and Human Sciences . ^ a b c "História | USP – Universidade de São Paulo" . 5.usp.br . 20 June 2014 . Retrieved 28 April 2016 . ^ "Legado da ditadura na USP é tema de audiência na Comissão da Verdade" . Al.sp.gov.br . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "ECA relembra seu passado como voz de resistência à ditadura" . 5.usp.br . 9 December 2014 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "Comissão da Verdade homenageia Ana Rosa Kucinski em audiência pública" . 5.usp.br . 11 November 2013 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "Estudo resgata história dos livros censurados pela ditadura no Brasil" . 5.usp.br . 3 July 2014 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "A Filosofia Da USP SOB A Ditadura Militar" (PDF) (in Portuguese). Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 February 2015 . Retrieved 5 February 2015 . ^ http://www.iri.usp.br/documentos/Factsheet_IRI-USP_oct_2016.pdf Archived 8 April 2023 at the Wayback Machine International Exchange Program. On 27 December 2017 ^ "Faculdade de Direito de Ribeirão Preto" . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ a b "International Office" . Usp.br . Archived from the original on 26 October 2019 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "International Office" . Usp.br . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities – 2022" . Shanghai Jiaotong University . Retrieved 31 July 2023 . ^ "CWUR World University Rankings - 2023" . CWUR . Retrieved 31 July 2023 . ^ "CWTS Leiden Ranking – 2020" . Leiden University . Retrieved 31 July 2023 . ^ "QS World University Rankings" . ^ "World University Rankings 2023" . Times Higher Education . 4 October 2022 . Retrieved 31 July 2023 . ^ "USNWR World Rankings - 2022-23" . U.S. News & World Report . Retrieved 31 July 2023 . ^ "(Text in Portuguese)" . 23 February 2012 . Retrieved 20 June 2020 . ^ "World Reputation Rankings 2013" . Times Higher Education . 13 April 2015 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities – 2010" . Shanghai Jiaotong University . Retrieved 30 October 2010 . ^ "CWTS Leiden Ranking 2020 – Ranking 2020" . Leidenranking.com . Retrieved 10 July 2020 . ^ "QS World University Rankings – 2024" . Top Universities. 27 June 2023 . Retrieved 27 June 2023 . ^ "QS Latin American University Rankings – 2024" . Top Universities. 27 June 2023 . Retrieved 27 June 2023 . ^ "World University Rankings 2021" . Times Higher Education . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ Almeida, Talita De (26 August 2016). "The Faculty of Medicine of the University of São Paulo (FMUSP) Internationalization Strategy" . Revista de Medicina . 95 (spe3). Universidade de Sao Paulo, Agencia USP de Gestao da Informacao Academica (AGUIA): 39. doi : 10.11606/issn.1679-9836.v95ispe3p39-43 . ISSN 1679-9836 . ^ América Economia, ed. (2009). "Rankings de Clínicas y Hospitales de América Latina 2009" . Archived from the original on 16 November 2009 . Retrieved 11 August 2014 . ^ "G1 – Ciências humanas é preferência entre intercambistas estrangeiros da USP – notícias em Educação" . Educação . August 2013 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ Mügge, Ernani (16 March 2016). "K. – relato de uma busca: a ficção a serviço da revisão da história nacional" . Signo (in Portuguese): 95– 104. doi : 10.17058/signo.v1i1.7331 . ISSN 1982-2014 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to University of São Paulo . Official website (in English) International Cooperation Office – USP (in English) Universidade de São Paulo – Universidades e Carreiras Online (Portuguese) List of undergraduate courses offered by USP (English) List of USP's Schools, Colleges and Institutes (English) Institute of Mathematics and Statistics (English) Dept. of Computer Science (English) v t e University of São Paulo Faculties and schools Faculty of Architecture and Urbanism (FAU) Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão Preto Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto Faculty of Philosophy, Languages and Human Sciences Heart Institute Institute of Mathematics and Statistics (IME) Law School Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculture (ESALQ) NeuroMat Oceanographic Institute Polytechnic School School of Arts, Sciences, and Humanities (EACH) School of Communications and Arts (ECA) School of Economics, Business and Accounting (FEA) School of the Future Examinations FUVEST Hospitals Hospital das Clínicas da Universidade de São Paulo Hospital das Clínicas de Ribeirão Preto Journals Papéis Avulsos de Zoologia Libraries Biblioteca Brasiliana Guita e José Mindlin Museums Museu Paulista Museum of Contemporary Art Museum of Veterinary Anatomy FMVZ USP Museum of Zoology Engenho dos Erasmos Research BINGO Kanguera Patinho Feio IEB People List of alumni List of faculty Sports Estádio Universitário São Paulo Category Commons v t e Brazilian universities and colleges Federal Universities Acre Alagoas Amapá Amazonas Bahia Recôncavo Southern Western Brasília Ceará Cariri International Integration of the Afro-Brazilian Lusophony Espírito Santo Goiás Maranhão Mato Grosso Mato Grosso do Sul Grande Dourados Minas Gerais Alfenas Itajubá Juiz de Fora Lavras Ouro Preto São João del-Rei Triângulo Mineiro Uberlândia Vales do Jequitinhonha e Mucuri Viçosa Pará Rural of Amazonia Southern and Southeastern Western Paraíba Campina Grande Paraná Latin American Integration Technology Pernambuco Rural São Francisco Valley Piauí Rio de Janeiro Fluminense Rural State of Rio de Janeiro Rio Grande do Norte Rural of the Semi-arid Region Rio Grande do Sul Health Sciences of Porto Alegre Pampa Pelotas Rio Grande Santa Maria Rondônia Roraima Santa Catarina Fronteira Sul São Paulo ABC Region São Carlos Sergipe Tocantins Colleges Instituto Militar de Engenharia Instituto Tecnológico de Aeronáutica Naval School Institutes Acre Bahia Baiano Brasília Ceará Mato Grosso Minas Gerais CEFET-MG Pará Paraná Pernambuco Rio de Janeiro Barra da Tijuca CEFET-RJ Rio Grande do Sul Sul-Rio-Grandense Santa Catarina São Paulo State and municipal Amazonas Bahia Feira de Santana Santa Cruz Southwestern Ceará Vale do Acaraú Goiás Maranhão Região Tocantina Mato Grosso Mato Grosso do Sul Minas Gerais Montes Claros Pará Paraíba Paraná Londrina Maringá Ponta Grossa Western Pernambuco Rio de Janeiro Northern West Zone Rio Grande do Sul Santa Catarina São Paulo Assis Campinas FATEC São Caetano do Sul Taubaté UNESP Private and non-profit ESPM FAAP FACHA FCM-MG FEEVALE FEI FGV FMP/FASE FMU FUMEC IBMEC IESB IMT INSPER MACKENZIE PUC-Campinas PUC-Goiás PUC-MG PUC-PR PUC-Rio PUC-RS PUC-SP UAM UCAM UCB UCDB UCP UCPEL UCS UCSAL UIT ULBRA UMC UMESP UNAERP UNAMA UNESA UNESC UNIARA UNIBAN UNIBH UNICAP UNICEUB UNICRUZ UNIDERP UNIFACS UNIFRA UniÍtalo UNIMEP UNINOVAFAPI UNIPAR UNIRITTER UNISANTOS UNISC UNISINOS UNIVAP UNIVATES UNIVEM UNOPAR UP UPF USF USJT USS USU UVA Unileste Research centers Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Físicas Instituto Benjamin Constant Instituto Butantan Instituto Nacional de Matemática Pura e Aplicada International Institute for Neuroscience of Natal Laboratório Nacional de Luz Síncrotron National Institute of Amazonian Research National Observatory Category Commons List v t e Brazil articles History Timeline Indigenous peoples Colonial Brazil (1500–1815) United Kingdom (1815–1822) Empire (1822–1889) First (Old) Republic (1889–1930) Vargas Era (1930–1946) Fourth Republic (1946–1964) Military dictatorship (1964–1985) Sixth (New) Republic (1985–present) Geography Biomes Brazilian Antarctica Climate Climate change Coastline Continental shelf Environment Environmental issues Extreme points Geology Islands Jurisdictional waters Cities Mountains Protected areas Regions Rivers Amazon basin Time Zone Water resources Wildlife World Heritage Sites Politics Administrative divisions Constitution Elections Foreign relations Government Human rights Freedom of speech LGBTQ T Women's rights Judiciary Law Law enforcement Military Ministries National Congress Political parties President of the Republic Economy Agriculture Animal husbandry Automotive industry Central Bank Economic history Energy Exports Industry Mining Real (currency) Science and technology Stock index Taxation Telecommunications Tourism LGBTQ Transport Highway system Rail transport Society Abortion Censorship Corruption Crime Demographics Education Folklore Health Immigration Income inequality Languages Brazilian Portuguese LGBTQ T Life expectancy People Social issues States by HDI Unemployment Water supply and sanitation Welfare Women Youth Culture Animation Archaeology Architecture Art Carnaval Cinema Comics Cuisine Dance LGBTQ Literature LGBTQ Malandragem Media Print Radio Television Monuments Music Mythology National symbols Newspapers Painting Public holidays Sculpture Science fiction Sports Television Video gaming Religion Freedom of religion Baháʼí Buddhism Christianity Catholicism Armenian Catholic Maronite Melkite Ukrainian Catholic Eastern Orthodoxy Antiochian LDS Protestantism Islam Hinduism Judaism Syncretic Religions Candomblé Quimbanda Umbanda Symbols Flag Coat of arms Anthem Miss Brazil World Heritage Sites Republic's Effigy National bird National fauna National flora Patron saint Outline Index Category Portal v t e Education in South America Sovereign states Argentina Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Guyana Paraguay Peru Suriname Uruguay Venezuela Dependencies and other territories Falkland Islands French Guiana South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands v t e University Global Partnership Network North Carolina State University University of Surrey University of Wollongong University of São Paulo v t e Port-City University League Brazil USP Canada UBC China DUT SJTU SDU Egypt Alexandria India IIT Madras Ireland University College Cork Japan YCU YNU Portugal ULisboa Saudi Arabia KAU South Korea INU PKNU UGent Global Turkey ITU United Kingdom Southampton Vietnam HCMUT v t e Visitor attractions in São Paulo Monuments and landmarks Bandeirantes TV Tower Beco do Pinto Latin America Memorial Marco Zero Monument to the Bandeiras Monument to the Independence of Brazil Monument to Ramos de Azevedo Obelisk of São Paulo Octávio Frias de Oliveira Bridge Buildings Altino Arantes Building Brazil Stock Exchange Butantã's House Centro Comercial Aricanduva Centro Empresarial Nações Unidas Conjunto Nacional Copan Building Itália Building Iguatemi São Paulo Júlio Prestes Station Luz Station Mappin Building Martinelli Building Matarazzo Building Municipal Market Bandeirantes Palace São Pedro Theater Municipal Theater List of tallest buildings Churches and religious sites Basilica of the Most Blessed Sacrament Imaculado Coração de Maria Church Nossa Senhora da Consolação Church Nossa Senhora do Brasil Church Ordem Terceira do Carmo Church Orthodox Metropolitan Cathedral Pátio do Colégio Santo Antônio Church São Bento Monastery São Cristóvão Church São Paulo Brazil Temple São Paulo Cathedral Temple of Solomon Museums and cultural institutions CAIXA Cultural São Paulo Carmo Planetarium Casa das Rosas Bank of Brazil Cultural Center Centro Cultural da Penha Centro Cultural e de Estudos Superiores Aúthos Pagano Ema Gordon Klabin Cultural Foundation Football Museum Immigration Museum Butantan Institute Mário de Andrade Library Memória do Bixiga Museum Museu Afro Brasil Museu Lasar Segall Museu Paulista (Ipiranga) São Paulo Museum of Art Museum of Art of the Parliament Museum of Contemporary Art Museum of Fine Arts Museum of Image and Sound Museum of Modern Art Museum of Sacred Art Museum of the Portuguese Language Oca Pavilion Industries Palace Pinacoteca do Estado Professor Aristóteles Orsini Planetarium Sala São Paulo Stadiums Allianz Parque Anhembi Convention Center Anhembi Sambadrome Arena Corinthians Canindé Stadium Morumbi Stadium Ícaro de Castro Melo Stadium Nicolau Alayon Stadium Parque São Jorge Stadium Rua Javari Stadium Estádio Universitário São Paulo Ibirapuera Auditorium Pacaembu Stadium Via Funchal Vibra São Paulo Neighborhoods and districts Aclimação Alto de Santana Bixiga Bom Retiro Brigadeiro Faria Lima Avenue Brooklin Novo Central Zone Japão Jardins Liberdade Paulista Avenue Rua 25 de Março Rua Augusta Rua Oscar Freire University of São Paulo (USP) Vila Madalena Vila Olímpia Parks and public squares Albert Löfgren State Park Beco do Batman Botanical Garden Cantareira State Park Cemitério da Consolação Ibirapuera Park Independence Park Jardim da Luz Largo da Batata Largo da Memória Parque do Carmo Parque Trianon People's Park Pico do Jaraguá Praça da República Praça da Sé Praça Roosevelt São Paulo Zoo Vale do Anhangabaú Viaduto do Chá Villa-Lobos State Park Events Anima Mundi Brazilian Grand Prix Electronic Language International Festival March for Jesus Saint Silvester Road Race São Paulo Art Biennial São Paulo Fashion Week São Paulo Gay Pride Parade São Paulo Indy 300 São Paulo International Film Festival São Paulo International Motor Show Virada Cultural Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF GND FAST National United States France BnF data Czech Republic Spain Portugal Norway Argentina Israel Academics CiNii Artists ULAN Other IdRef Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=University_of_São_Paulo&oldid=1327417408 " Categories : University of São Paulo 1934 establishments in Brazil Universities and colleges established in 1934 State universities in Brazil Tourist attractions in São Paulo Universities and colleges in São Paulo Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas CS1 Brazilian Portuguese-language sources (pt-br) CS1 Portuguese-language sources (pt) Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from July 2022 Wikipedia articles in need of updating from February 2024 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Coordinates on Wikidata Articles using infobox university Pages using infobox university with the image name parameter Articles containing Portuguese-language text Pages using multiple image with manual scaled images Articles using infobox templates with no data rows All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2025 Commons category link from Wikidata Pages using the Kartographer extension