https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big-box_store

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Physically large retail establishment "Superstore" redirects here. For other uses, see Superstore (disambiguation) . "Supercenter" redirects here. For concept in mathematics and physics, see Superalgebra § Supercommutativity . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Big-box store" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2008 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( February 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A Walmart Supercenter , a general merchandise big-box hypermarket in Onalaska, Wisconsin A Barnes & Noble , a specialty big-box store, in Ann Arbor, Michigan A big-box store , a hyperstore , a supercenter , a superstore , or a megastore is a physically large retail establishment, usually part of a chain of stores. The term sometimes also refers, by extension, to the company that operates the store. The term "big-box" references the typical appearance of buildings occupied by such stores. [ 1 ] Commercially, big-box stores can be broken down into two categories: general merchandise (examples include Walmart and Target ) and specialty stores (such as Home Depot , Barnes & Noble , IKEA or Best Buy ), which specialize in goods within a specific range, such as hardware , books , furniture or consumer electronics , respectively. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, many traditional retailers and supermarket chains that typically operate in smaller buildings, such as Tesco and Praktiker (the latter which is defunct since 2014), opened stores in the big-box-store format in an effort to compete with big-box chains, which are expanding internationally as their home markets reach maturity. [ 2 ] The store may sell general dry goods , in which case it is a general merchandise retailer (however, traditional department stores , as the predecessor format, are generally not classified as "big box"), or may be limited to a particular specialty (such establishments are often called " category killers "), or may also sell groceries, in which case some countries (mostly in Europe ) use the term hypermarket . In the U.S., there is no specific term for general merchandisers who also sell groceries. Both Target and Walmart offer groceries in most branches in the U.S. Big-box stores are often clustered in shopping centers, which are typically called retail parks in the United Kingdom. In the United States, when they range in size from 250,000 square feet (23,000 m 2 ) to 600,000 square feet (56,000 m 2 ), they are often referred to as power centers . [ 3 ] Big-box stores in various countries [ edit ] Australia [ edit ] Interior of Mitre 10 MEGA, a big-box hardware store in Australia In Australia, the retail category is known as "large format retail", encompasses bulky goods showrooms and more specialised retail categories within service or Highway commercial type land use zones. In 1969, Kmart Australia opened its first five big-box type stores across Australia. The first opened in Burwood East , Melbourne , in April, followed by Blacktown in Greater Western Sydney , two stores in suburban Adelaide and a store in suburban Perth . [ 4 ] IKEA began operation in Australia in 1975. Bunnings followed in 1995 and Mitre 10 adopted the model with the "Mitre 10 Mega" stores first opening at Beenleigh, Queensland , in 2004. Costco has since expanded across Australia since opening its first store in 2009. Canada [ edit ] Apart from major American big-box stores such as Walmart Canada and briefly now-defunct Target Canada , there are many retail chains operating exclusively in Canada.  These include stores such as (followed after each slash by the owner) Loblaws / Real Canadian Superstore , Rona , Winners / HomeSense , Canadian Tire / Mark's / Sport Chek , Shoppers Drug Mart , Chapters / Indigo Books and Music , Sobeys , and many others. Loblaw Companies Limited has expanded and multiplied its Real Canadian Superstore (and Maxi & Cie in Quebec) branded outlets to try to fill any genuine big-box market and fend off the damaging competition that a large Walmart penetration would inflict on Canadian-based retailers. In the early 21st century, commercial developers in Canada such as RioCan chose to build big-box stores (often grouped together in so-called " power centres ") in lieu of traditional shopping malls . Examples include Deerfoot Meadows ( Calgary ), Stonegate Shopping Centre and Preston Crossing ( Saskatoon ), South Edmonton Common ( Edmonton ), and Heartland Town Centre ( Mississauga ). There are currently more than 300 power centres, which usually contain multiple big-box stores, located throughout Canada. [ citation needed ] China [ edit ] Most large grocery stores in China are of the big-box variety, selling big screen TVs, computers, mobile phones, bicycles, and clothing. Many foreign names appear, such as Carrefour , Auchan , Tesco , Lotte Mart , and Walmart , as well as dozens of Chinese chains. Most stores are three stories with moving sidewalk-style escalators. Some stores are so large as to have 60 checkout terminals and their own fleet of buses to bring customers to the store at no charge. France [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( November 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Many configurations exist: the hypermarket that sells many kinds of goods under one roof (like French chains Carrefour , Auchan , and E.Leclerc ), [ 5 ] most of which are integrated within a shopping mall ; the supermarket that is a smaller version of a hypermarket; the market located in city centres; the department store (such as Le Bon Marché ), which first appeared in Paris, then opened in other parts of the world; [ 6 ] the "category killer" superstore that mainly sells goods in a particular domain (automotive, electronics, home furniture, etc.); and the warehouse store , like Metro Cash and Carry (for professionals only) and Costco , who opened its first store in June 2017. [ 7 ] Hong Kong [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( August 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A ParknShop superstore at the Tai Po Mega Mall in Hong Kong To contend against Carrefour , ParknShop opened the first superstore in 1996. [ 8 ] Most superstores in Hong Kong emphasizes one-stop shopping, such as providing car park services. Today, ParknShop has more than 50 superstores and megastores, making it the largest superstore network in Hong Kong . The first Wellcome superstore opened in 2000 and it has 17 superstores. [ 9 ] By 2007, ParknShop and Wellcome had over 80% of supermarket trade in Hong Kong. [ 10 ] In addition, China Resources Vanguard has four superstores in Hong Kong. Because Hong Kong is a very densely populated city, the sizes of superstores are considerably smaller than those in other countries. Some superstores are running at deficit, such as Chelsea Heights which therefore has stopped selling fresh fish [ citation needed ] . Furthermore, some ParknShop superstores and megastores, such as Fortress World, belong to the same corporation, Hutchison Whampoa . India [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( August 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) India has been going through a retail revolution since the late 1990s, following the introduction of Big Bazaar in 2001. However, even before that, large retail stores were not uncommon in India. Spencer's, a popular hypermart, traces its history as far back as 1863. Saravana Stores , operating as a large independent showroom format since 1969, has continued to expand significantly. Saravana Stores operating format is said to be the inspiration for Big Bazaar's Kishore Biyani. Similarly, conglomerates, such as Raheja's, Future Group, Bharti, Godrej, Reliance, and TATA, have over the last decade ventured into large-format retail chains. However, most of the stores opened in large malls and not as independent big-box format stores, even though small and medium enterprises (SMEs) still account for the majority of the daily consumer transaction needs. DMart , owned by Avenue Supermarkets Limited, expanded widely, including into tier 2 and tier 3 cities. An attempt was made to allow international large format retailers such as Walmart into the country. However, it was successfully opposed by small retailers citing job elimination due to increased efficiency and lowered prices due to fewer losses and lower costs. Big-box format stores in India were opened by IKEA in the city of Hyderabad, and subsequently, in the city of Navi Mumbai. [ citation needed ] Republic of Ireland [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( August 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) In Ireland , large merchandise stores in the style of U.S. superstores were not a part of the retail sector until the late 20th century. Dunnes Stores has traditionally had a supermarket-plus-household-and-clothes model and now have some large stores. Tesco Ireland now runs upwards of 19 hypermarkets across the country. [ citation needed ] New Zealand [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( August 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The big-box phenomenon hit New Zealand in the late 1980s, with the introduction of Kmart Australia and later the " Warehouse " superstore, a local company. Mitre 10 New Zealand opened their first Mega in 2004 at Hastings six months before the Australian Mega store; it opened to great success with 20 more stores opening within two years. Australian-owned Bunnings Warehouse opened its first store in New Zealand in 2006. United Kingdom [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( August 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) In the United Kingdom , Makro and Costco membership-only warehouse club stores have been around for four decades. General merchandise shops along the lines of U.S. superstores are not a large part of the retail sector, but this has been changing in recent years, with the creation of extra-large supermarkets such as Tesco and Asda selling a broader range of non-food goods, typically in out-of-town shopping centres or retail parks. As in the US, such large shops are sometimes called anchor tenants . The growth of online retail and budget retail has led to these chains moving away from the large out-of-town supermarkets which have waned in popularity. The term "big-box store" is not used in the UK. "Superstore" is sometimes used, but with a slightly different meaning: on road signs it means "large supermarket"; in self-service shop names it denotes an outlet larger than that particular chain's usual size. United States [ edit ] Exterior of a SuperTarget in McDonough, Georgia Interior of a Lowe's big-box hardware store in Brooklyn In the United States , some big-box stores may specialize in categories of merchandise (" category killer "), such as Best Buy in electronics and appliances and Kohl's , Burlington , and Nordstrom Rack in apparel and home furnishings. Big-box general merchandise retailers such as Target and Walmart are similar to the global concept of a hypermarket , although they do not always have a grocery section. The term "hypermarket" is not in common use in the United States; "superstore" is sometimes used, in addition to the industry term "general merchandise retailer." [ 11 ] The category began in 1931, when Fred G. Meyer opened what he called a "one-stop shopping center" in Northeast Portland, Oregon. [ 12 ] Meyer's format was imitated by Meijer in 1962 and later by Walmart, Kmart , Target (the discount brand of Dayton department store), and Woolco (the discount brand of the Woolworth department store) all opened. [ 13 ] These were called " discount stores "—still an industry term for this type of store—and which between the 1960s and 1980s started to open larger-format stores called "megastores." [ 14 ] These stores served the newly enlarged population of customers with cars, being located in suburbs and surrounded by ample parking lots. [ 13 ] They were enabled by the decline of laws which prevented large retailers from getting bulk discounts. [ 13 ] Warehouse club stores are another category of big-box general merchandise stores, such as Sam's Club , Costco , and BJ's Wholesale Club . They require membership to purchase and often require purchasing larger quantities of goods at once. Typical architectural characteristics [ edit ] Rimi hypermarket in Lilleküla , Tallinn , Estonia Large, free-standing, shoebox , generally single-floor structure built on a concrete slab. The flat roof and ceiling trusses are generally made of steel, and the walls are concrete block clad in metal or masonry siding. The structure typically sits in the middle of a large, paved parking lot. The exterior is designed primarily for access by motor vehicles, rather than by pedestrians. [ 15 ] Floor area several times greater than traditional retailers in the sector, providing for a large amount of merchandise; in North America , generally more than 50,000 square feet (4,650 m 2 ), sometimes approaching 200,000 square feet (18,600 m 2 ), though varying by sector and market. In countries where rentable space is at a premium, such as the United Kingdom , the relevant numbers are smaller and stores are more likely to have two or more floors. Criticism [ edit ] Labor [ edit ] Big-box development has at times been opposed by labor unions because the employees of such stores are usually not unionized. Unions such as the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 770 and the Joint Labor Management Committee of the Retail Food Industry have expressed concern about the grocery market because stores such as Kmart , Target , and Walmart now sell groceries. [ 16 ] Unions and cities sometimes attempt to use land-use ordinances to restrict these businesses. [ 17 ] Urban planning [ edit ] 2011 photo of a Sears big box store with subway station in Rego Park, Queens , New York City , New York. This location closed in 2017 and was afterwards occupied by an IKEA store, which closed in 2022. Because it is generally inaccessible to pedestrians and often can only be reached by motor vehicles, the big-box store has been criticized as unsustainable and a failure of urban planning . [ 18 ] [ 19 ] See also [ edit ] List of superstores List of hypermarkets Supplier convergence Types of retail outlets References [ edit ] ^ Hayes, Adam (September 16, 2021). "Big-Box Retailer: Definition, Examples, Vs. Small-Box Stores" . Investopedia . Retrieved December 15, 2022 . ^ CQ Researcher : Big-Box Stores.  September 10, 2004. ^ " "U.S. Shopping-Center Classification and Characteristics," International Council of Shopping Centers" (PDF) . ^ "Coles History 1969" . Retrieved October 17, 2021 . ^ "Top 10 Supermarket Retail Chains In France" . ESM Magazine . September 6, 2024 . Retrieved September 29, 2025 . ^ Song, Vivian (March 4, 2020). "World's oldest department store feels like the streets of Paris" . CNN . Retrieved September 29, 2025 . ^ "Costco Opens First Store In France" . ESM Magazine . June 23, 2017 . Retrieved September 29, 2025 . ^ "CK Hutchison Holdings Limited - Media Centre > Press Releases" . www.ckh.com.hk . Retrieved September 29, 2025 . ^ "2000 onwards | Wellcome" . www.wellcome.hk . Retrieved September 29, 2025 . ^ Williams, Mark (March 2007). "The Supermarket Sector in China and Hong Kong: A Tale of Two Systems" (PDF) . The Competition Law Review . 3 (2): 251– 268. ^ Joseph, Lawrence (2014). An Empirical Mega-Analysis of Retail Locations: Value Platforms, Real-Estate Maturity, and Deployment Decisions . Fred Neeson. ISBN 978-0-9960626-0-2 . ^ Leeson, Fred (May 2013). My-Te-Fine Merchant: Fred Meyer's Retail Revolution . Arizona State University. S2CID 168399700 . ^ a b c Linda Wertheimer (November 19, 2012). "The Past And Future Of America's Biggest Retailers" . NPR . ^ "| Ad Age" . adage.com . March 19, 2012. ^ Kelbaugh, Douglas (2002). Repairing the American Metropolis . USA: University of Washington Press. p. 165. ISBN 0295982047 . ^ " 'BIG-BOX' RETAILERS UNDER FIRE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION OF TWO WAL-MARTS FOUGHT BY GROCERY UNIONS" . thefreelibrary.com . Archived from the original on July 15, 2017 . Retrieved August 20, 2015 . ^ "City Council Passes Big-Box Ordinance" . Archived from the original on October 25, 2011 . Retrieved October 9, 2009 . ^ Dunham-Jones, Ellen (2011). Retrofitting Suburbia . New York, NY, US: John Wiley & Sons. p. 51. ISBN 978-1118027677 . ^ Yin, Jordan (2012). Urban Planning For Dummies . New York, NY, US: John Wiley & Sons. p. 220. ISBN 978-1118101681 . External links [ edit ] Howard, Theresa, " Big-box stores squeeze into Big Apple ," USA Today , October 18, 2004 Business Essentials: "Big-Box Retailers" by Adam Hayes at Investopedia, 25 September 2021 Big Box Sprawl PDF from the National Trust for Historic Preservation bigboxreuse.com Re-use of big box store buildings v t e Retail Key concepts Counter display unit Display stand Endcap Facing Free standing display unit Gondola History of retail Merchandising Visual merchandising Point of sale display Retail design Retail merchandising unit Self-service Shelf-ready packaging By product Agricultural supplies Alcohol Antiques Automotive fuel Automotive parts Beauty products Books Cannabis Catering Mobile Chocolate Clothes Comics Confectionery Consumer electronics Cycles Doujin shop Dry goods Equestrian supplies Eyewear Fish Flowers Food Food service Fruit stand Furniture Garden centre Gardening supplies General merchandise Gold Greengrocer Grocery Public grocery Guns Hardware Health food Herbal tea Hobby supplies Home decor Home improvement products Ironmongery Jewellery Lingerie Lumber Magic supplies Meat Medications Medicinal plants Music Musical instruments News Office supplies Outdoor equipment Party supplies Personal accessories Pets and pet supplies Real estate Religious goods Sexual goods Shoes Skateboarding supplies Sporting goods Survival equipment Tickets Resale Online Tobacco Toys Vaping products Vehicles Video games By format Anchor tenant Automat Automated retail Big-box store Boot fair Boutique Brick and mortar Bring and buy sale Butcher shop Car boot sale Cash and carry Cashierless store Category killer Chain store Charity shop Closeout store Company store Consignment shop Consignment store (East Asia) Convenience store Automated convenience store Corner store Mini-mart Mini market Superette Dark store Department store Junior department store Public department store Discount store E-commerce Estate sale Experiential commerce Experiential retail Factory outlet Factory store Flash retailing Free box Freeshop Free store Garage sale General store Give-away shop Haberdasher Head shop High Street Honesty box Hospice shop Hyperstore Immersive commerce Inspect and pay Jumble sale Junk shop Lifestyle store Main Street Mall kiosk Market Bazaar Christmas market Dark market Dry market Grey market Farmers' market Fish market Flea market Floating market Hypermarket Marketplace Online marketplace Market booth Market hall Market stall Market square Mart Meat market Mercado Morning market Pasar pagi Night market Pasar malam Open-air market Palengke Pannier market Public market Souk Street market Supermarket warehouse supermarket Tianguis Traditional market Wet market Megastore Micro-retailing Military cooperative Moving sale Non-store retailing Off-price Omnichannel retail strategy Online grocer Online retailing Opportunity shop Outlet store Pop-up retail Pop-up shop Pop-up store Pretail Resale shop Retail kiosk Rummage sale Second-hand shop Shop-in-shop Shopping center Big-box center Community center Festival center Festival marketplace Galleria Lifestyle center Neighborhood shopping center Outlet center Outlet mall Pedestrian mall Plaza Power center Retail park Shopping arcade Shopping complex Shopping mall Shopping plaza Shopping precinct Strip center Strip mall Strip plaza Theme center Showroom Smartstore Smart shop Specialty store Store-within-a-store Supercenter Superstore Swap meet Indoor swap meet Swap shop Tag sale Thrift store Unmanned store Variety store Dollar store Five and dime store Vending machine Warehouse club Warehouse store Web store White elephant sale Wholesale club Yard sale By type Arabber Boutique Braderie Butcher shop Concession stand Cooked food centre Costermonger Direct sellers Duty-free shop Etsy Witches Food booth Food cart Food court Food hall Food kiosk Food stall Food stand Food truck Gift shop Hawker Hawker centre Ice cream truck Ice cream van Museum shop Pawn shop Peddler Pharmacies Refreshment stand Snack bar Snack kiosk Souvenir shop Surplus store Tack shop Tax-free shopping Tuck shop Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Big-box_store&oldid=1322280842 " Categories : Superstores Retail buildings Retail formats Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from August 2018 Articles needing additional references from December 2008 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from February 2019 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2008 Articles needing additional references from November 2013 Articles needing additional references from August 2013 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2025 Articles with unsourced statements from March 2021 Articles with unsourced statements from July 2010