https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Safety

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia State of being secure from harm, injury, danger, or other non-desirable outcomes For other uses, see Safety (disambiguation) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this article. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Safety" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2010 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Warning signs , such as this one, can improve safety awareness . Safety is the state of being protected from harm or other danger. Safety can also refer to the control of recognized hazards in order to achieve an acceptable level of risk . Meanings "After whiskey driving risky" safety road sign in Ladakh , India Platform screen doors are primarily used for passenger safety to prevent users from falling down on the tracks. Etymology The word 'safety' entered the English language in the 14th century. [ 1 ] It is derived from Latin salvus , meaning uninjured, in good health , safe. [ 2 ] via Middle English saufte , from Anglo-French salveté , saufté , from salf safe. [ 1 ] Definitions The term is used often and in a wide range of contexts. Despite a popular impression that the meaning is well known and universally understood, there is no universally accepted definition. The assumption of common understanding is prevalent in standards, guidelines and dissertations, which do not provide a definition which might ensure that the use of the term in their specific context is unambiguous. [ 3 ] Definitions are generally based on community acceptance and understanding, so a given definition is not necessarily inherently better than another, and can illustrate a variety of different perspectives. It can be defined as the absence of risk and adverse incidents, or as the presence of a capability to defend against adverse events and mitigate their effects. The Oxford English Dictioary uses "freedom from danger and risks" and Merriam-Webster Dictionary describes it as "the condition of being safe from undergoing or causing hurt, injury, or loss." [ 3 ] Other definitions of safety from the literature include: [ 3 ] "The preservation of positive value." [ 4 ] "Ability for a system to perform its intended purpose, whilst preventing harm to persons." [ 5 ] "A complex concept often defined by a particular condition. This condition denotes the absence of potential harm, including risks such as injury to individuals or animals, financial loss, or any other form of damage or loss".(Li and Guldenmund 2018, p. 95) "The antonym of risk (the safety level is linked to the risk level; a high safety means a low risk and vice versa)". [ 6 ] "Application of hazard control through the workplace, person and system by integrating into the organization sustained actions, accountability and reducing risk to as low as reasonably practicable to mitigate potential injury." [ 7 ] "Zero harm" [ 7 ] "The condition where the number of adverse outcomes is as low as possible by trying to make sure things do not go wrong by eliminating the causes of malfunctions and hazards or by containing their effects." [ 8 ] "Freedom from unacceptable risk" (ISSO/IEC 2014, p. 2) "A state of low risk: the lower the risk, the higher the safety." [ 9 ] "A state in which hazards and conditions leading to physical, psychological or material harm are controlled in order to preserve the health and well-being of individuals and the community." [ 10 ] "The ability of individuals or organizations to deal with risks and hazards so as to avoid damage or losses and yet still achieve their goals." [ 11 ] As an outcome, safety is an acceptable history of adverse events. As a target, safety involves proactive planning and strategies to minimise risk in a changing environment, while as an ongoing process, safety involves ensuring that people, environment and property will be protected in the current situation, and adverse incidents are mitigated when they occur. [ 3 ] Safety is the condition of a "steady state" of an organization or place doing what it is supposed to do. "What it is supposed to do" is defined in terms of public codes and standards, associated architectural and engineering designs , corporate vision and mission statements, and operational plans and personnel policies. For any organization, place, or function, large or small, safety is a normative concept. It complies with situation-specific definitions of what is expected and acceptable. [ 12 ] Using this definition, protection from a home's external threats and protection from its internal structural and equipment failures (see Meanings, above) are not two types of safety but rather two aspects of a home's steady state. Security is the process or means, physical or human, of delaying, preventing, and otherwise protecting against external or internal, defects, dangers, loss, criminals, and other individuals or actions that threaten, hinder or destroy an organization's "steady state," and deprive it of its intended purpose for being. [ citation needed ] Using this generic definition of safety it is possible to specify the elements of a security program. [ 12 ] Safety terminology acceptably safe The safety objectives are deemed to be appropriate and the assessment carried out shows that the design can meet these objectives. [ 13 ] reasonably practicable Balanced between cost and benefit when considering the assessed risk. [ 14 ] Limitations Safety can be limited in relation to some guarantee or a standard of insurance to the quality and unharmful function of an object or organization. It is used in order to ensure that the object or organization will do only what it is meant to do. It is important to realize that safety is relative. Eliminating all risk , if even possible, would be extremely difficult and very expensive. A safe situation is one where risks of injury or property damage are low and manageable. When something is called safe, this usually means that it is safe within certain reasonable limits and parameters.  For example, a medication may be safe, for most people, under most circumstances, if taken in a certain amount. A choice motivated by safety may have other, unsafe consequences.  For example, frail elderly people are sometimes moved out of their homes and into hospitals or skilled nursing homes with the claim that this will improve the person's safety.  The safety provided is that daily medications will be supervised, the person will not need to engage in some potentially risky activities such as climbing stairs or cooking, and if the person falls down, someone there will be able to help the person get back up.  However, the end result might be decidedly unsafe, including the dangers of transfer trauma , hospital delirium , elder abuse , hospital-acquired infections , depression, anxiety, and even a desire to die. [ 15 ] Types There is a distinction between products and situations that meet standards, that are statistically safe, and that merely feel safe. The highway safety community uses these terms: [ 16 ] Normative Normative safety is achieved when a product or design meets applicable standards and practices for design and construction or manufacture, regardless of the product's actual safety history. [ 16 ] Substantive Substantive or objective safety occurs when the real-world safety history is favorable, whether or not standards are met. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] Perceived Perceived or subjective safety refers to the users' level of comfort and perception of risk, without consideration of standards or safety history. For example, traffic signals are perceived as safe, yet under some circumstances, they can increase traffic crashes at an intersection. Traffic roundabouts have a generally favorable safety record [ 18 ] yet often make drivers nervous. Low perceived safety can have costs. For example, after the 9/11 attacks in 2001, many people chose to drive rather than fly, despite the fact that, even counting terrorist attacks, flying is safer than driving. Perceived risk discourages people from  walking and bicycling for transportation, enjoyment or exercise, even though the health benefits outweigh the risk of injury. [ 19 ] Perceived safety can drive regulation which increases costs and inconvenience without improving actual safety. [ 20 ] [ 21 ] Security Main article: Security Also called social safety or public safety, security addresses the risk of harm due to intentional criminal acts such as assault, burglary or vandalism. [ citation needed ] Because of the moral issues involved, security is of higher importance to many people than substantive safety. For example, a death due to murder is considered worse than a death in a car crash, even though in many countries, traffic deaths are more common than homicides. [ citation needed ] Operational safety Operational safety refers to the state in which the risk to life, health, property, or the environment from a system or subsystem in an operational setting is maintained at an acceptable level. Achieving this requires identifying hazards, assessing risks, implementing mitigation measures, and accepting any remaining risk. [ 22 ] This section needs expansion with: Define operational safety.. You can help by making an edit request adding to it . ( August 2024 ) Risks and responses Main article: Risk Safety is generally interpreted as implying a real and significant impact on risk of death, injury or damage to property.  In response to perceived risks many interventions may be proposed with engineering responses and regulation being two of the most common. [ citation needed ] Probably the most common individual response to perceived safety issues is insurance, which compensates for or provides restitution in the case of damage or loss. [ citation needed ] System safety and reliability engineering System safety and reliability engineering is an engineering discipline. Continuous changes in technology, environmental regulation and public safety concerns make the analysis of complex safety-critical systems more and more demanding. [ citation needed ] A common fallacy, for example among electrical engineers regarding structure power systems, is that safety issues can be readily deduced. [ citation needed ] In fact, safety issues have been discovered one by one, over more than a century in the case mentioned, in the work of many thousands of practitioners, and cannot be deduced by a single individual over a few decades. A knowledge of the literature, the standards and custom in a field is a critical part of safety engineering. A combination of theory and track record of practices is involved, and track record indicates some of the areas of theory that are relevant. (In the US, persons with a state license in Professional Engineering in Electrical Engineering are expected to be competent in this regard, the foregoing notwithstanding, but most electrical engineers have no need of the license for their work.) [ citation needed ] Safety is often seen as one of a group of related disciplines: quality, reliability, availability, maintainability and safety. (Availability is sometimes not mentioned, on the principle that it is a simple function of reliability and maintainability.) These issues tend to determine the value of any work, and deficits in any of these areas are considered to result in a cost, beyond the cost of addressing the area in the first place; good management is then expected to minimize total cost. [ citation needed ] Measures Safety measures are activities and precautions taken to improve safety, i.e. reduce risk related to human health. Common safety measures include: Chemical analysis Destructive testing of samples Drug testing of employees, etc. Examination of activities by specialists to minimize physical stress or increase productivity Geological surveys to determine whether land or water sources are polluted, how firm the ground is at a potential building site, etc. Government regulation so suppliers know what standards their product is expected to meet. Industry regulation so suppliers know what level of quality is expected. Industry regulation is often imposed to avoid potential government regulation. Instruction manuals explaining how to use a product or perform an activity Instructional videos demonstrating proper use of products Root cause analysis to identify causes of a system failure and correct deficiencies. Internet safety or online safety, is protection of the user 's safety from cyber threats or computer crime in general. Periodic evaluations of employees, departments, etc. Physical examinations to determine whether a person has a physical condition that would create a problem. Process safety management is an analytical tool focused on preventing and managing releases of hazardous materials in industrial plants. Safety culture Safety margins/safety factors, for instance, a product rated to never be required to handle more than 100 kg might be designed to fail under at least 200 kg, a safety factor of two. Higher numbers are used in more sensitive applications such as medical or transit safety. Self-imposed regulation of various types. Implementation of standard protocols and procedures so that activities are conducted in a known way. Statements of ethics by industry organizations or an individual company so its employees know what is expected of them. Stress testing subjects a person or product to stresses in excess of those the person or product is designed to handle, to determining the "breaking point". Training of employees, vendors, product users Visual examination for dangerous situations such as emergency exits blocked because they are being used as storage areas. Visual examination for flaws such as cracks, peeling, loose connections. X-ray analysis to see inside a sealed object such as a weld, a cement wall or an airplane outer skin. Research Today there are multiple scientific journals focusing on safety research. Among the most popular ones are Safety Science and Journal of Safety Research. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] The goal of this research is to identify, understand, and mitigate risks to human health and well-being in various environments. This involves systematically studying hazards, analyzing potential and actual accidents, and developing effective strategies to prevent injuries and fatalities. Safety research aims to create safer products, systems, and practices by incorporating scientific, engineering, and behavioral insights. Ultimately, it seeks to enhance public safety, reduce economic losses, and improve overall quality of life by ensuring that both individuals and communities are better protected from harm. [ 25 ] Standards organizations Main article: Standards organization A number of standards organizations exist that promulgate safety standards. These may be voluntary organizations or government agencies. These agencies first define the safety standards, which they publish in the form of codes. They are also Accreditation Bodies and entitle independent third parties such as testing and certification agencies to inspect and ensure compliance to the standards they defined. For instance, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) formulated a certain number of safety standards in its Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (BPVC) and accredited TÜV Rheinland to provide certification services to guarantee product compliance to the defined safety regulations. [ 26 ] United States American National Standards Institute A major American standards organization is the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Usually, members of a particular industry will voluntarily form a committee to study safety issues and propose standards. Those standards are then recommended to ANSI, which reviews and adopts them. Many government regulations require that products sold or used must comply with a particular ANSI standard. Government agencies Many government agencies set safety standards for matters under their jurisdiction, such as: the Food and Drug Administration the Consumer Product Safety Commission the United States Environmental Protection Agency Testing laboratories Product safety testing, for the United States, is largely controlled by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. In addition, workplace related products come under the jurisdiction of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which certifies independent testing companies as Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories (NRTL), see. [ 27 ] European Union Institutions the European Commission (EC) the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) the European Safety Federation (ESF) Testing laboratories The European Commission provides the legal framework, but the different Member States may authorize test laboratories to carry out safety testing. Other countries Standards institutions British Standards Institution Canadian Standards Association Deutsches Institut für Normung International Organization for Standardization Standards Australia Testing laboratories Many countries have national organizations that have accreditation to test and/or submit test reports for safety certification. These are typically referred to as a Notified or Competent Body. A mug reminds the drinker to be careful. See also Accident – Unforeseen event, often with a negative outcome Behavior-based safety – System used in industry to reduce exposure to hazards Risk management – Identification, evaluation and control of risks Safety statement – Document that outlines how a company manages their health and safety Certified safety professional – Qualified safety personnel American Society of Safety Professionals – Professional organization Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – United States government public health agency CDC Poison control center – Over-the-phone medical service Safety in Australia Natural disaster – Type of adverse event Seismic analysis – Study of the response of buildings and structures to earthquakes Crowd control – Public security practice Aisles: Safety and regulatory considerations – Architectural element Consumer product safety – Request to return a product after the discovery of safety issues or product defects Door-related accidents – Movable barrier that allows ingress and egress Explosives safety – Safety practices related to explosives Gun safety – Study and practice of safe operation of firearms Child safety Child safety seat – Seat designed to protect children during traffic collisions Toy safety – Practice of ensuring that toys meet safety standards Safe Kids Worldwide – Global non-profit organization working to prevent childhood injury Patient safety – Prevention, reduction, reporting, and analysis of medical error Sports injury – Physical and emotional trauma safety Electrical safety Electrical safety testing – Testing to ensure the compliance of electrical systems with safety standards Arc flash – Heat and light produced during an electrical arc fault Fire safety – Practices to reduce the results of fire Process safety – Study, prevention, and management of major hazardous material accidents in process plants Nuclear safety and security – Regulations for uses of radioactive materials Lists of nuclear disasters and radioactive incidents Criticality accident – Uncontrolled nuclear fission chain reaction Transportation Road Automotive safety – Study and practice to minimize the occurrence and consequences of motor vehicle accidents Road safety , also known as Road traffic safety – Methods and measures for reducing the risk of death and injury on roads Motorcycle safety – Study of the risks and dangers of motorcycling Bicycle safety – Safety practices to reduce risk associated with cycling Traffic collision – Incident when a vehicle collides with another object Pedestrian safety Rail Lists of rail accidents Maritime Maritime safety Sailing ship accidents – Naval mishaps Aircraft Aviation safety – State in which risks associated with aviation are at an acceptable level Aviation accidents and incidents Occupational safety and health – Field concerned with the safety, health and welfare of people at work Diving safety – Risk management of underwater diving activities Work accident – Occurrence during work that leads to physical or mental harm Personal protective equipment – Equipment designed to help protect an individual from hazards Safety data sheet – Sheet listing work-related hazards of a product or substance Security – Degree of resistance to, or protection from, harm Security company – Type of company Safety engineering – Engineering discipline Fail-safe – Design feature or practice Poka-yoke – Process that helps an equipment operator avoid mistakes Software system safety References Wikivoyage has travel information for Stay safe . Wikimedia Commons has media related to Safety . Wikiquote has quotations related to Safety . ^ a b " "Safety". Definition & Meaning" . Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on 16 August 2025 . Retrieved 28 October 2025 . ^ safety | Etymology of safety by etymonline ^ a b c d Raheemy, Yaqoob; Sherratt, Fred; Hallowell, Matthew R. (May 2025). "What is safety? contemporary definitions and interpretations across North America" . Safety Science . 185 (106798). doi : 10.1016/j.ssci.2025.106798 . ISSN 0925-7535 . ^ Vandeskog, B. (2024) Safety is the preservation of value. Journal of Safety Research, p. S0022437524000185. Available at: Doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2024.02.004. ^ D.J. Provan, D.D. Woods, S.W. Dekker, A.J. Rae. Safety II professionals: How resilience engineering can transform safety practice Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf., 195 (2020), Article 106740 ^ SRA (2018) Society for Risk Analysis glossary. Available at: https://www.sra.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/SRA-Glossary-FINAL.pdf (Accessed: 3 October 2024) ^ a b D. Balderson. A means to provide a safe work environment
Prof. Saf., 61 (5) (2016), pp. 63-68 ^ E. Hollnagel. Safety-I and Safety-II: The past and future of safety management Ashgate Publishing Company (2014) ^ Möller, N., Hansson, S.O. and Peterson, M. (2006) Safety is more than the antonym of risk. Journal of Applied Philosophy, 23(4), pp. 419–432. Available at: Doi: 10.1111/j.1468-5930.2006.00345.x. ^ P. Maurice, M. Lavoie, L. Laflamme, L. Svanström, C. Romer, R. Anderson. Safety and safety promotion: definitions for operational developments Inj. Control Saf. Promot., 8 (4) (2001), pp. 237-240 ^ Reason, J. (2000) Safety paradoxes and safety culture. Injury Control and Safety Promotion, 7(1), pp. 3–14. Available at: Doi: 10.1076/1566-0974(200003)7:1;1-V;FT003. ^ a b Charles G. Oakes , PhD, Blue Ember Technologies, LLC. " Safety versus Security in Fire Protection Planning Archived 2012-03-13 at the Wayback Machine ," The American Institute of Architects : Knowledge Communities, May 2009.  Retrieved on June 22, 2011. ^ " Acceptably safe definition" . www.lawinsider.com . Retrieved 3 September 2025 . ^ "What Does 'Reasonably Practicable' Mean For Health and Safety of Workers?" . Parim. 28 January 2025. Archived from the original on 7 September 2025 . Retrieved 4 September 2025 . ^ Neumann, Ann (February 2019). "Going to Extremes" . Harper's Magazine . ISSN 0017-789X . Archived from the original on 2019-08-01 . Retrieved 2019-01-22 . ^ a b c "System Safety & Performance Based Practical Design". 2018 Transportation Short Course (PDF) . Texas A&M University. 16 October 2018. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 September 2022 . Retrieved 19 September 2022 . ^ Sørensen, Michael; Mosslemi, Marjan (2009). Subjective and Objective Safety: The Effect of Road Safety Measures on Subjective Safety among Vulnerable Road Users (PDF) . TØI report 1009/2009 (Report). Oslo. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 September 2022 . Retrieved 19 September 2022 . ^ "Proven Safety Countermeasures: Roundabouts" . Federal Highway Administration. Archived from the original on 2012-07-31 . Retrieved 2012-08-13 . ^ Jeroen Johan de Hartog; Hanna Boogaard; Hans Nijland; Gerard Hoek (1 August 2010). "Do the Health Benefits of Cycling Outweigh the Risks?" . Environmental Health Perspectives . 118 (8): 1109– 1116. Bibcode : 2010EnvHP.118.1109D . doi : 10.1289/ehp.0901747 . PMC 2920084 . PMID 20587380 . ^ Stotz, Tamara; Bearth, Angela; Ghelfi, Signe Maria; Siegrist, Michael (May 2022). "The perceived costs and benefits that drive the acceptability of risk-based security screenings at airports". Journal of Air Transport Management . 100 102183. doi : 10.1016/j.jairtraman.2022.102183 . hdl : 20.500.11850/531027 . ^ Buchan, John C.; Thiel, Cassandra L.; Steyn, Annalien; Somner, John; Venkatesh, Rengaraj; Burton, Matthew J.; Ramke, Jacqeline (June 2022). "Addressing the environmental sustainability of eye health-care delivery: a scoping review" . The Lancet Planetary Health . 6 (6): e524 – e534 . doi : 10.1016/S2542-5196(22)00074-2 . PMC 7618290 . PMID 35709809 . ^ "Air Force Policy Directive 63-12: Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness" (PDF) . Department of the Air Force e-Publishing . U.S. Air Force. 2000. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 February 2025 . Retrieved 11 February 2025 . ^ "Scopus preview - Scopus - Safety Science" . www.scopus.com . Archived from the original on 2022-02-10 . Retrieved 2024-05-19 . ^ "Scopus preview - Scopus - Journal of Safety Research" . www.scopus.com . Archived from the original on 2024-12-08 . Retrieved 2024-05-19 . ^ "Aims and scope - Safety Science | ScienceDirect.com by Elsevier" . www.sciencedirect.com . Archived from the original on 2024-05-19 . Retrieved 2024-05-19 . ^ Rheinland, TÜV. "Pressure Vessel Inspection According to ASME" . tuv.com . Archived from the original on 14 January 2017 . Retrieved 2 May 2018 . ^ "Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories (NRTLs) - Occupational Safety and Health Administration" . www.osha.gov . Archived from the original on 8 April 2018 . Retrieved 2 May 2018 . Further reading Wildavsky, Aaron ; Wildavsky, Adam (2008). "Risk and Safety" . In David R. Henderson (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of Economics and Liberty . ISBN 978-0-86597-665-8 . OCLC 237794267 . Archived from the original on 2017-01-06 . Retrieved 2013-07-21 . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Safety&oldid=1323272436 " Category : Safety Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Articles needing additional references from July 2010 All articles needing additional references Articles containing Latin-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2025 Articles to be expanded from August 2024 All articles to be expanded Commons category link is on Wikidata Broad-concept articles