https://www.caranddriver.com/car-value-estimator

Used Car & Trade-In Value Calculator - Car and Driver Skip to Content SHOP NEW CARS SHOP USED CARS Research Cars Expert Reviews WHAT’S MY CAR WORTH? Expert-Tested Gear News + Stories What's My Car Worth? Get your car's trade-in and private-party-sale values right here. Simply tell us about your vehicle, its options, and what you might be considering as your next vehicle. Car and Driver calculates your car's value using the same Black Book® data dealers use to appraise vehicles. FAQs How is my vehicle's value calculated? Car and Driver responds to your value requests using data from our sister company, Black Book, an auto industry leader in vehicle-value data analysis for car dealers. Black Book's extensive database enables us to calculate what your vehicle is worth based on its age, mileage, condition, options, and accident history—and also adjusts for the going price of similar vehicles in your area. Our calculator will tell you two things: what you can expect to be paid for your vehicle if you sell it privately, and what you should get if you trade it in at the dealership. How accurate are Car and Driver's vehicle values? You can count on the values we give you since we use the same data that Black Book analyzes and then supplies to car dealers, whose businesses depend upon knowing precisely what every car, truck, and SUV is worth. Can I trade in my car if it isn't paid off? Yes, you can choose to sell it to the dealership where you're buying your new vehicle. The dealer will handle the payment to your loan provider and will put any remaining proceeds towards your new set of wheels. Is it better to trade in your car or sell it yourself? There are pros and cons to both trading in and selling your car privately. By looking at your state's tax code and doing the math, you’ll be able to arrive at the right answer for your needs. Most times, selling your vehicle privately will net you more money up front, but that could mean you'll pay more taxes on the full price of the new car that you're buying. Selling it yourself can also entail extra time, the need to deal with strangers, and possible scams. However, in some states you only pay sales tax on what the car costs after the dealer subtracts the value of your trade-in. You might come out ahead in that case. Finally, there are the car-buying services, which can be both quicker and safer to deal with but, like a dealer, will pay you less for your car than a private party. So as we said, do your homework, do the math, and then decide. Does my location affect my car's value? It can. People in different parts of the country favor different types of vehicles, which affects their value in that locale. Rear-wheel-drive pickup trucks, to give one example, are generally worth more in the Southeast than in the Northeast. I have a classic car. Can I get its value here? Car and Driver is part of Hearst Autos, and our company's classic-car auction site, Bring a Trailer , can help you get an idea. Besides, it’s a great place to look at classic cars of all kinds for enjoyment. How quickly does a car depreciate in value? That depends. Different vehicles depreciate at different rates depending on numerous factors, including how the economy is doing at that time; what kind of vehicle it is; the brand of the car; how much demand there is for that model; the price of gas; and much more. Car-Shopping Secrets Trade in Your Car with a Loan for Cheaper Car Trading in a Car with a Loan How to Trade in Your Car for the Best Deal How to Get the Best Price for Trading In Your Car Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Here's Exactly How Trading in a Car Works What to Do Next Once Your Car Lease Is Over Best Websites for Selling Your Car 7 Things Not to Do at a Car Dealership Car-Buying Negotiating Guide 5 Things to Do Before You Go to the Dealership How to Get the Most for Your Used Car How Does Carvana Work? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below