https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All-wheel_drive

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from All-wheel drive ) Powertrain providing power to all its wheels for use primarily on paved surfaces The Jeep Wrangler ( TJ pictured) is a 4×4 four-wheel drive vehicle equipped with a low-range gearbox, which provides the driver with a selection between low range or high range gearing Hayes WHDX 70-170 6×6 tractor The 8×8 tractor unit of the HETS (heavy equipment transport system) An all-wheel drive vehicle ( AWD vehicle ) is one with a powertrain capable of providing power to all its wheels, whether full-time or on-demand. Types [ edit ] The most common forms of all-wheel drive are: 1x1 All unicycles Reflects one axle with one wheel capable of being powered. 2x2 Some motorcycles and bikes Reflects two axles with one wheel on each capable of being powered. 4×4 (also, four-wheel drive or 4WD) Reflects two axles with both wheels on each capable of being powered. 6×6 (also, six-wheel drive or 6WD) Reflects three axles with both wheels on each capable of being powered. 8×8 (also, eight-wheel drive or 8WD) Reflects four axles with both wheels on each capable of being powered. Vehicles may be either part-time all-wheel drive or full-time: On-demand or Part-time One axle is permanently connected to the drive, the other is connected as needed Full-time or Permanent All axles are permanently connected, with or without a differential . Independent The wheels are driven, but not dependent on a central mechanical power coupling. Terminology [ edit ] Particularly in North America for several decades, the designation AWD has been used and marketed – distinctly from 4×4 and 4WD – to apply to vehicles with drive train systems that have permanent drive, a differential between the front and rear drive shafts, and active management of torque transfer, especially following the advent of the anti-lock braking system (ABS). [ citation needed ] However, the designations AWD [ 1 ] and all-wheel drive [ 2 ] long predated the trend, with Associated Equipment Company (AEC) producing AWD trucks in 1929 in conjunction with the British subsidiary of the pioneering American firm Four Wheel Drive Auto Company . Additionally, General Motors began manufacturing a line as "all-wheel drive" as early as the late 1930s. This distinction in terminology is not generally used outside North America. [ citation needed ] In the context of hybrid and electric vehicles , the North American designation of 'all-wheel-drive' may differ. In some hybrid vehicles, the combustion engine is only mechanically connected to the front wheels, while the rear wheels are powered independently by an electric motor; this may be marketed as eAWD . Furthermore, many electric vehicles have individual, unconnected motors powering each axle, or even each individual wheel, also without any center differential. Characteristics [ edit ] Further information: Four-wheel drive § SAE recommended practices When tire grip is good during road driving, a differential is used between the axles to avoid driveline windup . This is not required off-road, as the limited grip allows the tires to slip. All-wheel drive vehicles designed for extensive off-road use may not have such a differential, and so they suffer from wind-up when used on-road. [ 3 ] Selectable 4WD also avoids this problem and requires only a simple dog clutch in the transfer case , rather than a differential. For this reason, most early off-road vehicles used that system; e.g., Jeep , Land Rover . As vehicles became more sophisticated and tires gave better winter performance in the 1960s, there was an interest in giving the benefits of all-wheel drive to conventional cars: not for off-road use but for winter use in snow and ice or on wet roads. Exotic vehicles such as the high-powered Jensen FF followed by the AMC Eagle , Subaru Leone and Audi Quattro series were the first to offer all-wheel drive in a high-speed road-based car. These, particularly the Quattro, would extensively develop this drivetrain with the use of viscous couplings and differentials to provide a safe and drivable car. The first off-road / on-road hybrids such as the Range Rover also chose the permanent all-wheel-drive system rather than manual selection. See also [ edit ] All-terrain vehicle Four Wheel Drive or FWD, one of the first companies, from 1909, to build four-wheel drive vehicles. Front-wheel drive H-drive Individual wheel drive (IWD) Rear-wheel drive Two-wheel drive References [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to All wheel drive vehicles . ^ "Automotive History" . allisons.org . Australia . Retrieved 24 October 2024 . 1929: AEC started to build AWD trucks in conjunction with FWD (UK) ^ Meyer, Donald E. "The first century of GMC truck history" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 January 2014 – via GM Heritage Center. By December [1939], GMC had orders for more than 4,400 all-wheel-drive military trucks. ^ Ware, Pat (1994). In National Service . Warehouse Publications. p. 118. ISBN 0-9525563-0-8 . External links [ edit ] "All Wheel Drive Motorcycles 2x2" . Fuel . 23 January 2021 . Retrieved 28 September 2025 . v t e Car design Classification By size Micro Kei Subcompact / Supermini Family Compact Mid-size Full-size Custom Baja Bug Hot rod Lead sled Lowrider Sandrail T-bucket Luxury Compact executive Executive Personal Minivan / MPV Compact Leisure Mini SUV Compact Crossover (CUV) Mini Coupe SUV Sports Grand tourer Hot hatch Muscle Pony Sport compact Sports sedan Super Go-kart Other Antique Classic Economy Ute Van Vintage car EU A-segment B-segment C-segment D-segment E-segment F-segment J-segment M-segment S-segment Body styles 2+2 Baquet Barchetta Berlinetta Brougham Cabrio coach Cab over Cabriolet / Convertible / Drophead coupe Coupe Coupé de Ville / Sedanca de Ville Coupé utility Fastback Hardtop Hatchback Kammback Landaulet Liftback Limousine Microvan Minibus Multi-stop truck Notchback Panel van Phaeton Pickup truck Quad coupé Retractable hardtop Roadster / Spider / Spyder Runabout Saloon / Sedan Sedan delivery/Panel van Shooting brake Station wagon Targa top Torpedo Touring Town (Coupé de Ville) T-top Vis-à-vis Specialized vehicles All-terrain vehicle Amphibious Connected Driverless (autonomous) Dune buggy Go-kart Gyrocar Pedal car Personal rapid transit Police car Flying car Taxicab Tow truck Voiturette Propulsion Alternative fuel Autogas Biodiesel Biofuel Biogasoline Biogas Compressed natural gas Diesel Electric ( battery NEV ) Ethanol ( E85 ) Fossil fuel Fuel cell Fuel gas Natural gas Gasoline / petrol ( direct injection ) Homogeneous charge compression ignition Hybrid ( plug-in ) Hydrogen Internal combustion Liquid nitrogen Liquified petroleum gas Steam Drive wheels Front-wheel Rear-wheel Two-wheel Four-wheel Six-wheel Eight-wheel Ten-wheel Twelve-wheel Engine position Front Mid Rear Layout (engine / drive) Front-front Front mid-front Rear-front Front-rear Rear mid-rear Rear-rear Front-four-wheel Mid-four-wheel Rear-four-wheel Dual motor-four-wheel Individual wheel drive Engine configuration ( internal combustion ) Boxer Flat Four-stroke H-block Reciprocating Single-cylinder Straight Two-stroke V (Vee) W engine Wankel Portal Category Template:EC car classification Authority control databases International GND Other Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=All-wheel_drive_vehicle&oldid=1313804792 " Categories : Off-road vehicles Car layouts Drivetrain Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from September 2021 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2024 Commons category link is locally defined