https://www.wikihow.com/Main-Page

Trending Now See more trending Expert 1 How to Make Out 2 Generator What Song Was #1 On My Birthday? Analyze Me 3 Quiz What Am I Craving Quiz Take Quiz 4 Generator Is Your Personality More 6 or 7? Analyze Me Expert 5 Quiz What Should My Name Really Be Quiz Take Quiz 6 Quiz Is a Guy You Don't Know Well Interested in You? Take Quiz 7 Generator Can We Guess If You're a Cat or Dog Person? Analyze Me Expert 8 30 of the Hardest Riddles on Earth: The Harvard Riddle & Beyond 9 Quiz Which of the Big Three Are Your Parents? (Percy Jackson) Take Quiz 10 140 Cute, Soft, & Cool Names for Femboys 11 Quiz Which Hogwarts House Do You Truly Belong In? Take Quiz 12 Generator Crush Analyzer (What Are The Names Of People Crushing On You?) Analyze Your Daily Dose of Fun See more games Quiz How Many People Had a Crush on Me This Year? Find Out Here Take Quiz Generator Dad Joke Generator Generate Generator What Character Looks Like You? Find Your Twin Generate Quiz Guess the Anime Quiz (Advanced) Take Quiz Quiz Taylor Swift Song Quiz Take Quiz Quiz Stranger Things Trivia Quiz Take Quiz TikTok Gems 💎 Everything You Need to Know About Тотя. 💗 30+ New Year’s Eve Games to Keep Your NYE Party Going Exploring the Controversial PSL Scale in Looksmaxxing HTN, MTN, LTN & Other Ways Looksmaxxers Rate Attractiveness What Does “Lowkenuinely” Mean? All About Jaw Jutting: What It Is, How to Do It, & If It Actually Works Expert Co-Authored Articles Expert Quiz Ink Blot Test Take Quiz Expert 65+ Sexy Poses for Your Next Seductive Selfie Expert Quiz What Generation Do I Really Belong In Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Childhood Trauma Test Take Quiz Expert How to Be Positive Expert The Best AI Stocks?  How to Invest in Them wikiHow is an award-winning website where trusted research and expert knowledge come together. Since 2005, wikiHow has helped billions of people learn how to solve problems large and small. We work with credentialed experts, a team of trained researchers, and a devoted community to create the most reliable, comprehensive and delightful how-to content on the Internet. Authoritative 100,000+ academically researched articles Trustworthy 2,000+ expert co-authors across 90,000+ articles Read about our editorial process Partnerships That Empower We've partnered with renowned organizations and industry experts to bring you award-winning courses, interactive quizzes, and helpful articles. Explore these valuable resources to stay informed. Explore Our Partnerships Browse By Category Arts and Entertainment Cars & Other Vehicles Computers and Electronics Education and Communications Family Life Finance and Business Food and Entertaining Forums Fun Games New Health Hobbies and Crafts Holidays and Traditions Home and Garden Personal Care and Style Pets and Animals Philosophy and Religion Quizzes Hot Relationships Sports and Fitness Travel Trending Work World Youth Featured Generator & Blind Box Dating Simulator Who do you want to go on a date with? Start Date Labubu Blind Box Unbox & Collect Your Own Online Labubus Get My Labubu Romance Style Profile Take 8 quizzes to get a comprehensive romance style profile Expert Quiz How High Are My Dating Standards Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Who Is My Soulmate Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz What's Your Red Flag Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Attachment Style Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz What Flower Am I Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz What Love Character Am I Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Do I Have Rizz Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Am I Good at Flirting Quiz Take Quiz Live Your Best Life Expert How to Look Your Best Expert The Best Ways to Find Your Purpose at Any Age Expert 14 Simple & Effective Ways to Stop Procrastinating Expert How to Set Goals and Achieve Them Explore Your Identity Expert Quiz Sexuality Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Am I a Lesbian Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Am I Gay Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Am I Straight Quiz Take Quiz Ignite Your Relationships Expert How to Know when Someone Likes You Expert How to Kiss Expert How to Get a Girlfriend Expert How to Attract Someone to You: Highlighting Your Personality & More Cast Your Vote Does 444 have a special meaning? 👍 Yes 👎 No 🤔 Maybe 1647 votes. Poll was last updated on 12/29/25. Visit Discussion New Poll wikiHow Around the World English Español Čeština Deutsch Français Italiano Português Русский हिन्दी 日本語 Nederlands العربية ไทย Türkçe Tiếng Việt 한국어 中文 Bahasa Indonesia فارسی Newsletter Subscribe to wikiHow's Newsletter Helpful how-to’s delivered to your inbox every week! Invalid Email Sign me up! We make learning easy with helpful, approachable instructions. People agree. Read our story. The Atlantic "wikiHow may be the largest commercial platform in existence that hasn’t been accused of exploiting its users." - Kaitlyn Tiffany Technology Writer, The Atlantic Vice "I've been yelling for a while about how wikiHow is doing the best consistent service journalism on the web right now." - Rachel Miller Deputy Editor, Vice Mother Jones "wikiHow is the ultimate pandemic hero because it’s utilitarian, earnest...and willing to laugh at itself." - Laura Thompson Editorial Fellow, Mother Jones Featured Discussions See more My dad asked me if I was trans...it went..questionably. Yesterday, (Dec 17 for ppl reading this later), my dad pulled me into his room for a chat about my sexuality because the name on my paper wasn't my birth name, it was Leo instead. He talked to me about it and I told him everything because he wouldn't stop asking if I didn't tell him everything. He said that my feelings were fake and that I wasn't actually transgender and that I was just "confused" and to think about what he said. So, naturally, I didn't think about what he said and just threw It out to the wind. Now, at least he's using more neutral terms for me like 'kid' instead of 'girl' and stuff like that which is the good part..but he keeps bringing up that I'm a 'girl' whenever he can. Like in conversations, he'll be like "Oh yeah she's a beautiful girl." That honestly really makes me upset but I didn't say anything bc he'll just shoot me down again. Now I'm apprehensive if I should push back or do nothing..Because if I push back he might start doubling down the fact that I was born a girl but if I do nothing it'll hurt me more in the long run. What do I do? 2 10 Join Discussion The friend drama. I need advice please Okay, so my friends had been in this fight for a very long time hating each other and spreading rumors about one another etc, and I wanted it to be over. I spent my time supporting both sides, and now they had made up and never told me. They are now ignoring me and side eyeing me, and also running away from me. I need advice please. Thank you. 1 3 Join Discussion Hey guys! I'm in a bit of a situation. My parents think I'm just nonbinary but I'm also trans and I don't know how to tell them. Background: My parents (Very catholic mom, not really religious dad), aren't really supportive of the LGBTQ+ community and now that I've been sure for a really long time I need to come out to them. I don't know how though and I'm scared they'll judge me or yell at me or something. They have both disrespected my they/them pronouns and so I'm scared of adding on he/him pronouns as well. But they've also made it clear that they'll love me no matter what and I am just so confused about how to tell them. Have any ideas? 3 6 Join Discussion His friends keep pushing him into me! Does it mean he likes me? So i have a crush on this guys named Kolias. And two of his friends keep trying to push him into me! One time they were successful. he bumped into me pretty hard. He almost fell but didn't and immediately went to go attack his friend. It was quite funny but he seemed embarrassed. Just this morning we were at PE class and his friend tried to push him into me again! I honestly don't know what this means. Does it mean he likes me? Or is it just his friends being teasing him? (Please help) 2 3 Join Discussion how do I tell my family I'm nonbinary and make them believe that, and that its not a delusion or teenage hormones? my parents found out I've been telling my friends I'm non-binary and use they/them but they think its teenage hormones or a delusion. how do I tell them its genuine? 0 10 Join Discussion What should I do if my girlfriend is mad at me? -1 2 Join Discussion Featured Courses Making Friends as an Adult Budgeting Fundamentals Networking for Career Success The Science of Happiness Home Fitness for Beginners 5 Days to a Better Memory Featured Videos Expert How to Deep Clean Your Kitchen Sink (& Keep It Clean) Expert How to Curl Your Hair: 8 Easy & Quick Ways Expert How to Thicken Sauce with Flour Expert How to Brighten Up White Shirts and Other Garments Expert How to Cook White Rice without a Rice Cooker Expert How to Clean Out the Inside of a Glass Bottle (With or Without a Brush) Expert Quizzes See more Expert Quiz Am I In Love Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Why Can't I Sleep Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Which Tarot Card Will I Draw Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Are You a Big Spoon or a Little Spoon Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Where Should I Move Quiz Take Quiz Expert Quiz Depression Test Take Quiz Explore All Quizzes and Generators Personality Quizzes Trivia Quizzes Taylor Swift Quizzes Love Quizzes Harry Potter Quizzes Anime Quizzes K-Pop Quizzes Fun Games Fantasy Name Generators Random Free Name Generators Cool Username Generators Baby Name Generators Expert Interviews Expert What Is The Meaning of Self Love? Expert How Do You Find Your Angel Number? Expert How Do You Lose Weight? Expert How Do You Cure Nausea? Expert What Is a Smart Goal? Expert How Can You Start a Healthy Relationship? New Articles See more new pages What Does “Lowkenuinely” Mean? How to Record Your Screen on Windows 11 for Free Exploring the Controversial PSL Scale in Looksmaxxing 50 Popular Anime Waifus You Probably Have a Crush On Stop Calling That Man Legendary: Memes, Origin & Fun Examples Everything You Need to Know About Тотя. 💗 See more new pages