https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tundra_tire

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of aircraft tire Maule M-7-235C on bushwheel-style tundra tires A tundra tire (UK: tundra tyre ) is a large low-pressure tire used on light aircraft to allow operations on rough terrain. [ 1 ] A common variant of tundra tire is the bushwheel brand. These tires include an integral inner tube with the valve manufactured into the side-wall, allowing the tire to operate at very low pressures without risking shearing-off the valve stem and causing a flat tire. Low-pressure tires provide greater cushioning and enable aircraft to land on rough surfaces, unsuitable for normal tires. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Bushwheels are a common modification for backcountry aircraft . [ 4 ] History [ edit ] The tundra-style tire has been independently invented at different times and places. In North America its post-World War II invention is credited to Canadian Welland Phipps , [ 1 ] potentially inspired by the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 's pre-World War II development of their own, similar low-pressure "airwheel" as a complete wheel-rim and tire set — said to be of the "Musselman" type from U.S. patent 1,877,360 , for its original inventor, Alvin J. Musselman — which was introduced to the American public in the late summer of 1929, [ 5 ] and becoming available in the United Kingdom by 1930. [ 6 ] It was initially offered by Goodyear in fully inflated diameters up to 46 inches (120 cm), with a 30-inch (76 cm) diameter in Goodyear's lineup having similar dimensions as seen in the British Flight magazine announcement, to a currently available size of tundra tire. [ 7 ] Nearly twenty years after the original Musselman design appeared on the market, Phipps designed and constructed his own balloon tires in the period after the Second World War and fitted them to a Piper PA-18 Super Cub . Phipps then went on to provide air transportation to much of the Canadian high arctic region. He later established his own airline, Atlas Aviation, which operated a fleet of De Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otters on balloon tires. Using the tires, Atlas's DHC-6s established airline service to such remote communities as Resolute, Nunavut and Grise Fiord, Nunavut . [ 1 ] Airworthiness issues [ edit ] In the United States and particularly in Alaska , tundra tires of various designs were often installed under local field approvals by Federal Aviation Administration inspectors. These approvals were usually granted on the basis of visual inspections and did not include flight testing. After a number of accidents with aircraft equipped with tundra tires, culminating with a large number in the fall of 1994, the National Transportation Safety Board identified that the tundra tires were connected with the accidents. Starting in April 1995 the FAA carried out flight test experiments to determine whether the tundra tires were a contributing factor. [ 1 ] The tests used a Piper PA-18-150 Super Cub equipped in sequence with five different sets of tires, including standard factory tires and tundra tires up to 35 in (89 cm) diameter. The PA-18 was operated at different weights and center-of-gravity positions. [ 1 ] The testing on the ground revealed that the larger the tire, the more restricted the forward visibility on the ground, that there was a nose-down pitching moment when the tires contacted the ground on landing, particularly on a wheel landing , and that tundra tire-equipped aircraft have substantially poorer ground handling characteristics on pavement. In the air, the use of tundra tires reduced top speed, rate of climb, angle of climb, range, useful load and stall warning buffet margins. [ 1 ] The tests did not indicate that tundra tires raise stall speed, but did find that, due to increased drag in turns, the aircraft's nose tends to drop excessively with an increase in bank angle. If the pilot counteracts this tendency with rudder and stalls the aircraft, the airplane will rapidly enter a spin . [ 1 ] Alaska bush pilots disputed the experimental findings, but, as a result of these experiments the FAA required that all installed tires be subject to a Technical Standard Order or Parts Manufacturer Approval , have been flight-tested and subject to a weight and balance report, determining an acceptable flight envelope. The FAA also limited tundra tires to 35 in (89 cm) in diameter, [ 1 ] eleven inches (28 cm) short of the largest original Goodyear "airwheel" tire size available in 1930. Operators [ edit ] Until the end of the 20th century, tundra tires were mostly used by bush operators flying in remote areas. In the early part of the 21st century many sales of tundra tires have been to recreational pilots. Bill Duncan, president of Alaskan Bushwheels a tundra tire manufacturer explains: [ 1 ] "It's the baby boomers. Here you have a group of people that lost their shirts in the stock market after 9/11 but still have disposable income and are tired of sitting in the office watching the clock. They’ve figured out that a light utility aircraft—a Super Cub, a Husky, a Maule or a Scout, to name the top four, will keep its value over time and may even appreciate in value. And they want to get outside and play." [ 1 ] Charles McDowell, an Aviat Husky pilot stated: There's the coolness factor, plus it's nice to have a little more capability than you may need...We want a rugged plane because it makes us feel a little more independent from the infrastructure. [ 1 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f g h i j k Richfield, Paul (September 2005). "Tundra Tire Nation" . Archived from the original on 11 December 2005 . Retrieved 13 December 2009 . ^ "Alaskan Bushwheels" . Archived from the original on 1 May 2014 . Retrieved 1 May 2014 . ^ "Crazed Pilot - Alaskan Bushwheels" . Archived from the original on 2 May 2014 . Retrieved 1 May 2014 . ^ "Backcountry Pilot Knowledge Base" . Archived from the original on 27 February 2019 . Retrieved 1 May 2014 . ^ "New Air Wheel Now on Market - Goodyear Device Does Away with Wheels" . The Pittsburgh Press . Pittsburgh, PA USA: The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 4 August 1929 . Retrieved 26 March 2014 . ^ "Flight Magazine, April 4, 1930 — The Goodyear Air Wheel, pgs. 404-405" . flightglobal.com . Flightglobal/Archive. 4 April 1930. Archived from the original on 31 December 2017 . Retrieved 23 October 2013 . ^ "Airframes Alaska - Alaskan Bushwheels - 29" Alaskan Bushwheel" . airframesalaska.com . Airframes Alaska. Archived from the original on 31 January 2019 . Retrieved 22 January 2017 . External links [ edit ] Old Rhinebeck Aerodrome's Great Lakes 2T-1MS biplane and Curtiss-Wright CW-1 Junior monoplane , both fitted with original Musselman/Goodyear "air wheel" precursors to tundra tires.(Archived files from October 20, 2014) v t e Tires Types Tubeless tire Radial tire Low rolling resistance tire Run-flat tire Michelin PAX System Airless tire Tweel Rain tyre Snow tire All-terrain tire Bar grip Knobby tire Large tire Mud-terrain tire Paddle tire Orange oil tires Whitewall tire Aircraft tire Tundra tire Bicycle tire Tubular tire Lego tire Motorcycle tyre Tractor tire Racing slick Formula One tyres Spare tire Continental tire Components Bead Beadlock Tread Siping (rubber) Valve stem Dunlop valve Presta valve Schrader valve Attributes Camber thrust Circle of forces Cold inflation pressure Contact patch Cornering force Ground pressure Pacejka's Magic Formula Pneumatic trail Relaxation length Rolling resistance Self aligning torque Slip angle Steering ratio Tire balance Tire load sensitivity Tire uniformity Lateral Force Variation Radial Force Variation Traction (engineering) Treadwear rating Behaviors Aquaplaning Groove wander Slip (vehicle dynamics) Tramlining Maintenance Tire maintenance Tire rotation Bicycle pump Central Tire Inflation System Tire mousse Tire-pressure monitoring system Tire-pressure gauge Direct TPMS Bead breaker Tire changer Tire manipulator Tire iron Life cycle Tire manufacturing List of tire companies Retread Waste tires Tire recycling Tire fire Blowout Flat tire Ozone cracking Organizations European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation Tire Society Tire Science and Technology Identification Tire code Plus sizing Tire label Uniform Tire Quality Grading (UTQG) Outline of tires Category v t e Aircraft components and systems Airframe structure Aft pressure bulkhead Cabane strut Canopy Crack arrestor Cruciform tail Dope Empennage Fabric covering Fairing Flying wires Former Fuselage Hardpoint Interplane strut Jury strut Leading edge Lift strut Longeron Nacelle Rib Spar Stabilizer Stressed skin Strut T-tail Tailplane Trailing edge Triple tail Twin tail V-tail Vertical stabilizer Wing root Wing tip Wingbox Flight controls Aileron Airbrake Artificial feel Autopilot Canard Centre stick Deceleron Dive brake Dual control Electro-hydraulic actuator Elevator Elevon Flaperon Flight control modes Fly-by-wire Gust lock HOTAS Rudder Rudder pedals Servo tab Side-stick Spoiler Spoileron Stabilator Stick pusher Stick shaker Trim tab Wing warping Yaw damper Yoke Aerodynamic and high-lift devices Active Aeroelastic Wing Adaptive compliant wing Anti-shock body Blown flap Channel wing Dog-tooth Drag-reducing aerospike Flap Gouge flap Gurney flap Krueger flap Leading-edge cuff Leading-edge droop flap LEX Slats Slot Stall strips Strake Variable-sweep wing Vortex generator Vortilon Wing fence Winglet Avionic and flight instrument systems ACAS Air data boom Air data computer Aircraft periscope Airspeed indicator Altimeter Annunciator panel Astrodome Attitude indicator Compass Course deviation indicator EFIS EICAS Flight management system Glass cockpit GPS Head-up display Heading indicator Horizontal situation indicator INS ISIS Multi-function display Pitot–static system Radar altimeter TCAS Transponder Turn and slip indicator Variometer Yaw string Propulsion controls, devices and fuel systems Autothrottle Drop tank FADEC Fuel tank Gascolator Inlet cone Intake ramp NACA cowling NACA duct Self-sealing fuel tank Splitter plate Throttle Thrust lever Thrust reversal Townend ring War emergency power Wet wing Landing and arresting gear Aircraft tire Arrestor hook Autobrake Conventional landing gear Drogue parachute Landing gear Landing gear extender Oleo strut Tricycle landing gear Tundra tire Escape systems Ejection seat Escape crew capsule Other systems Aircraft lavatory Auxiliary power unit Bleed air system Deicing boot Emergency oxygen system Environmental control system Flight recorder Hydraulic system Ice protection system In-flight entertainment system Landing lights Navigation light Passenger service unit Ram air turbine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tundra_tire&oldid=1326410903 " Categories : Tires Aircraft undercarriage Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from May 2022 Use American English from May 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in American English