https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hubris

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Extreme pride or overconfidence, often in combination with arrogance For other uses, see Hubris (disambiguation) . "Arrogance" redirects here. For other uses, see Arrogance (disambiguation) . This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( August 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Illustration for John Milton 's Paradise Lost by Gustave Doré (1866). The spiritual descent of Lucifer into Satan , one of the most famous examples of hubris. Part of a series on Emotions Affect Classification In animals Emotional intelligence Mood Self-regulation Interpersonal Dysregulation Valence Emotions Acceptance Admiration Affection Amusement Anger Angst Anguish Annoyance Anticipation Anxiety Apathy Arousal Awe Belongingness Boredom Confidence Confusion Contempt Contentment Courage Curiosity Depression Desire Determination Disappointment Disgust Distrust Doubt Dysphoria Ecstasy Elevation Embarrassment Emotional detachment Empathy Enthusiasm Envy Euphoria Faith Fear Frustration Gratification Gratitude Greed Grief Guilt Happiness Hatred Hope Horror Hostility Hubris Humiliation Interest Jealousy Joy Kindness Limerence Loneliness Love Lust Nostalgia Outrage Panic Passion Pity Pleasure Pride Rage Regret Rejection Relief Remorse Resentment Sadness Saudade Schadenfreude Self-pity Shame Shock Shyness Social connection Sorrow Suffering Surprise Suspicion Trust Wonder Worry v t e Hubris ( / ˈ h juː b r ɪ s / ; from Ancient Greek ὕβρις ( húbris ) ' pride, insolence, outrage ' ), or less frequently hybris ( / ˈ h aɪ b r ɪ s / ), [ 1 ] is extreme or excessive pride [ 2 ] or dangerous overconfidence and complacency , [ 3 ] often in combination with (or synonymous with) arrogance . [ 4 ] Hubris, arrogance, and pretension are related to the need for victory (even if it does not always mean winning) instead of reconciliation, which "friendly" groups might promote. [ 5 ] Hubris is usually perceived as a characteristic of an individual rather than a group, although the group the offender belongs to may suffer collateral consequences from wrongful acts. Hubris often indicates a loss of contact with reality and an overestimation of one's own competence, accomplishments, or capabilities. The term hubris originated in Ancient Greek , [ 6 ] where it had several different meanings depending on the context. In legal usage, it meant assault or sexual crimes and theft of public property, [ 7 ] and in religious usage it meant emulation of divinity or transgression against a god. [ 8 ] Ancient Greek origin [ edit ] In ancient Greek , hubris referred to "outrage": actions that violated natural order, or which shamed and humiliated the victim, sometimes for the pleasure or gratification of the abuser. Mythological usage [ edit ] Black-figure pottery (550 BC) depicting Prometheus serving his sentence, tied to a column Hesiod and Aeschylus used the word "hubris" to describe transgressions against the gods. [ 8 ] A common way that hubris was committed was when a mortal claimed to be better than a god in a particular skill or attribute. Claims like these were rarely left unpunished, and so Arachne , a talented young weaver, was transformed into a spider when she said that her skills exceeded those of the goddess Athena . Additional examples include Icarus , Phaethon , Salmoneus , Niobe , Cassiopeia , Tantalus , and Tereus . [ 9 ] The goddess Hybris is described in the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition as having "insolent encroachment upon the rights of others". [ 10 ] These events were not limited to myth, and certain figures in history were considered to have been punished for committing hubris through their arrogance. One such person was the king Xerxes I as portrayed in Aeschylus's play The Persians , and who allegedly threw chains to bind the Hellespont sea as punishment for daring to destroy his fleet. [ 11 ] What is common in all of these examples is the breaching of limits, as the Greeks believed that the Fates (Μοῖραι) had assigned each being with a particular area of freedom, an area that even the gods could not breach. [ 12 ] Legal usage [ edit ] Votive relief of Nemesis as protector of gladiators treading on Hubris, 2nd-century, Archaeological Museum of Patras , Greece In ancient Athens , hubris was defined as the use of violence to shame the victim (this sense of hubris could also characterize rape). [ 13 ] In legal terms, hubristic violations of the law included what might today be termed assault -and- battery , sexual crimes, or the theft of public or sacred property. In some contexts, the term had a sexual connotation. [ 6 ] Shame was frequently reflected upon the perpetrator, as well. [ 14 ] Crucial to this definition are the ancient Greek concepts of honour (τιμή, timē ) and shame (αἰδώς, aidōs ). The concept of honour included not only the exaltation of the one receiving honour, but also the shaming of the one overcome by the act of hubris. This concept of honour is akin to a zero-sum game. Rush Rehm simplifies this definition of hubris to the contemporary concept of "insolence, contempt, and excessive violence". [ 15 ] Two well-known cases are found in the speeches of Demosthenes , a prominent statesman and orator in ancient Greece . These two examples occurred when first Midias punched Demosthenes in the face in the theatre ( Against Midias ), and second when (in Against Conon ) a defendant allegedly assaulted a man and crowed over the victim. Yet another example of hubris appears in Aeschines ' Against Timarchus , where the defendant, Timarchus, is accused of breaking the law of hubris by submitting himself to prostitution and anal intercourse. Aeschines brought this suit against Timarchus to bar him from the rights of political office and his case succeeded. [ 7 ] Aristotle defined hubris as shaming the victim, not because of anything that happened to the committer or might happen to the committer, but merely for that committer's own gratification: to cause shame to the victim, not in order that anything may happen to you, nor because anything has happened to you, but merely for your own gratification. Hubris is not the requital of past injuries; this is revenge. As for the pleasure in hubris, its cause is this: naive men think that by ill-treating others they make their own superiority the greater. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] [ 18 ] [ 19 ] Early Christianity [ edit ] In the Septuagint , the "hubris is overweening pride, superciliousness or arrogance, often resulting in fatal retribution or nemesis ". The word hubris as used in the New Testament parallels the Hebrew word pesha , meaning "transgression". It represents a pride that "makes a man defy God", sometimes to the degree that he considers himself an equal. [ 20 ] Modern usage [ edit ] In its modern usage, hubris denotes overconfident pride combined with arrogance. [ 4 ] Hubris is also referred to as "pride that blinds" because it often causes a committer of hubris to act in foolish ways that belie common sense. [ 21 ] Arrogance [ edit ] Look up arrogance in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. The Oxford English Dictionary defines "arrogance" in terms of "high or inflated opinion of one's own abilities, importance, etc., that gives rise to presumption or excessive self-confidence, or to a feeling or attitude of being superior to others [...]." [ 22 ] Adrian Davies sees arrogance as more generic and less severe than hubris. [ 23 ] References [ edit ] ^ "hybris" . Collins English Dictionary . HarperCollins . ^ "Examples and Definition of Hubris in Literature" . Literary Devices . 2020-12-01 . Retrieved 2021-04-23 . ^ "hubris" . Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary . Merriam-Webster . Retrieved 2016-04-22 . ^ a b Picone, P. M.; Dagnino, G. B.; Minà, A. (2014). "The origin of failure: A multidisciplinary appraisal of the hubris hypothesis and proposed research agenda". Academy of Management Perspectives . 28 (4): 447– 468. doi : 10.5465/amp.2012.0177 . ^ "What Makes the Arrogant Person So Arrogant?" . Psychology Today . Retrieved 2020-04-16 . ^ a b Cohen, David (2004). "Law, society and homosexuality or hermaphrodity in Classical Athens". In Osborne, Robin (ed.). Studies in ancient Greek and Roman society . Cambridge University Press. p. 61–77 [p. 64]. ISBN 0-521-83769-3 . ^ a b Aeschines "Against Timarchus" from Homosexuality in Greece and Rome: A Sourcebook of Basic Documents by Thomas Hubbard (historian) [ ISBN missing ] [ page needed ] ^ a b Eds., "Hubris" , Encyclopædia Britannica . ^ Roman, Luke; Roman, Monica (2010). Encyclopedia of Greek and Roman Mythology . Infobase Publishing. ISBN 978-1438126395 . ^ Chisholm, Hugh , ed. (1911). "Themis" . Encyclopædia Britannica . Vol. 26 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 758. ^ Spurgeon, C. H. , The Metropolitan Tabernacle Pulpit—Sermons Preached and Revised by C. H. Spurgeon, During the Year 1877 , Volume 23 (London: Passmore & Alabaster, 1878), p. 303 . ^ Cornelius Castoriadis . Ce qui fait la Grèce, tome 1: D'Homère à Héraclite, chapitre V. Editeur: Seuil (9 mars 2004). ^ "Hubris" . Encyclopædia Britannica . Retrieved 21 April 2016 . ^ Cartledge, Paul ; Paul Millett (2003). Nomos: Essays in Athenian Law, Politics and Society . Cambridge University Press . p. 123. ISBN 978-0521522090 . Retrieved 2011-11-14 . ^ Rehm, Rush (2014). Radical Theatre: Greek Tragedy in the Modern World . A&C Black. p. 75. ISBN 978-1472502339 . Retrieved 2 October 2018 – via Google Books. ^ Aristotle , Rhetoric 1378b . ^ Cohen, David (1995). Law, Violence, and Community in Classical Athens . Cambridge University Press . p. 145. ISBN 0521388376 . Retrieved March 6, 2016 . ^ Ludwig, Paul W. (2002). Eros and Polis: Desire and Community in Greek Political Theory . Cambridge University Press . p. 178. ISBN 1139434179 . Retrieved March 6, 2016 . ^ Skof, Lenart [in Slovenian] ; Hawke, Shé M. (2021). Shame, Gender Violence, and Ethics: Terrors of Injustice . Rowman & Littlefield . ISBN 978-1793604682 . ^ Stanley J. Grenz , Theology for the Community of God , Pub: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing, 2000 – "The Greek word hubris , which occurs occasionally in the New Testament (e.g., Acts 27:10, 21; 2 Cor.12:10). parallels the Hebrew pasha . William Barclay offers a helpful definition of the term. Hubris , he writes, 'is mingled pride and cruelty. Hubris is the pride which makes a man defy God, and the arrogant contempt which makes him trample on the hearts of his fellow men.' [...] Hence, it is the forgetting of personal creatureliness and the attempt to be equal with God." ^ Hollow, Matthew (2014). "The 1920 Farrow's Bank Failure: A Case of Managerial Hubris" . Journal of Management History . 20 (2). Durham University: 164– 178. doi : 10.1108/JMH-11-2012-0071 . Retrieved October 1, 2014 . ^ "arrogance" . Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford University Press. (Subscription or participating institution membership required.) ^ Davies, Adrian (2011). "How Can Human Nature and Corporate Governance Be Reconciled?". The Globalisation of Corporate Governance: The Challenge of Clashing Cultures (reprint ed.). London: Routledge (published 2016). p. 68. ISBN 978-1317030102 . Retrieved 22 August 2020 . [...] hubris – a form of overweening pride and arrogance. [...] In modern usage hubris is an extreme form of arrogance, often in the face of facts [...]. Further reading [ edit ] Nicolas R. E. Fisher, Hybris: A Study in the Values of Honour and Shame in Ancient Greece , Warminster, Aris & Phillips, 1992. [ ISBN missing ] Cairns, Douglas L. (1996). " Hybris , Dishonour, and Thinking Big" (PDF) . The Journal of Hellenic Studies . 116 : 1– 32. doi : 10.2307/631953 . hdl : 20.500.11820/d7c5e485-cef7-490a-b67d-1b1eb4a200ef . JSTOR 631953 . S2CID 59361502 . MacDowell, Douglas (1976). " Hybris in Athens". Greece and Rome . 23 (1): 14– 31. doi : 10.1017/S0017383500018210 . S2CID 163033169 . Michael DeWilde, "The Psychological and Spiritual Roots of a Universal Affliction" Hubris on 2012's Encyclopædia Britannica "How to Use Hubris Correctly" . Grammarist . 24 September 2017. Robert A. Stebbins , From Humility to Hubris among Scholars and Politicians: Exploring Expressions of Self-Esteem and Achievement . Bingley, UK : Emerald Group Publishing , 2017. [ ISBN missing ] External links [ edit ] Look up hubris in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikiquote has quotations related to Hubris . Media related to Hubris at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of hubris at Wiktionary v t e Emotions ( list ) Emotions Acceptance Admiration Adoration Aesthetic Affection Agitation Agony Amusement Anger Angst Anguish Annoyance Anticipation Antipathy Anxiety Apathy Arousal Attraction Awe Belongingness Boredom Calmness Comfort Compassion Confidence Confusion Contempt Contentment Courage Cruelty Curiosity Defeat Depression Desire Disappointment Disgust Distrust Doubt Dysphoria Ecstasy Embarrassment vicarious Emotion work Empathy Emptiness Enthrallment Enthusiasm Envy Euphoria Excitement Faith Fear Flow Frustration Fun Gratification Gratitude Greed Grief Guilt Happiness Joie de vivre Hatred self-hatred Hiraeth Homesickness Hope Horror Hostility Humiliation Hygge Hysteria Ikigai (sense of purpose) Indulgence Infatuation Insecurity Insignificance Inspiration Interest Irritation Isolation Jealousy Joy Kindness Loneliness Love at first sight limerence obsessive parental passionate and companionate Lust Mono no aware Neglect Nostalgia Outrage Panic Passion Pity self-pity Pleasure Pride grandiosity hubris insult vanity Rage Regret Rejection Relaxation Relief Remorse Resentment Revenge Sadness melancholy Saudade Schadenfreude Sehnsucht Sentimentality Shame Shock Shyness Solitude Social connection Sorrow Spite Stress chronic Suffering Surprise Suspense Suspicion Sympathy Trust Wonder sense of wonder Worry Zest Worldviews Cynicism Defeatism Fatalism Misanthropy Nihilism Optimism Pessimism Reclusion Weltschmerz Related Affect consciousness in education measures in psychology Affective computing forecasting neuroscience science spectrum Affectivity positive negative Appeal to emotion Amygdala hijack Emotion and art and memory and music and sex and sleep classification circumplex EmojiGrid Lövheim PAD Plutchik evolution expressed functional accounts group homeostatic in animals perception recognition in conversation regulation interpersonal work Emotional aperture bias blackmail competence conflict contagion detachment dysregulation eating exhaustion expression and gender intelligence and bullying Empathy quotient intimacy isolation lability labor lateralization literacy prosody reasoning responsivity security symbiosis thought method well-being Emotionality bounded Emotions and culture history in decision-making in the workplace in virtual communication moral self-conscious social social sharing sociology Feeling Group affective tone Interactions between the emotional and executive brain systems Jealousy in art Mental state Meta-emotion Pathognomy Pathos Social emotional development Stoic passions Theory affect affect as information appraisal Cannon–Bard constructed emotion discrete emotion Emotion regime James–Lange somatic somatic marker two-factor Italics indicate emotion names in foreign languages Category v t e Narcissism Similar personality concepts Egomania Egotism God complex Grandiosity Healthy narcissism Hubris Messiah complex Superiority complex In society Collective narcissism In the workplace Leadership Me generation Narcissus (mythology) Parents Pathological narcissism Narcissistic personality disorder history Malignant narcissism Narcissistic Personality Inventory Phenomena Narcissistic injury neurosis elation mortification supply withdrawal defences Related psychology concepts Compensation Dark triad Empathy Entitlement Grandiosity Manipulation (psychology) Selfishness Category v t e Seven deadly sins The sins Lust Gluttony Envy Greed Sloth Pride Wrath Describing the sins Evagrius Ponticus John Cassian Pope Gregory I Dante Alighieri Peter Binsfeld In art and culture Divine Comedy Inferno Purgatorio The Keys to the Kingdom (book series) The Seven Deadly Sins (1585 play) The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things (painting) The Seven Deadly Sins (1933 ballet) The Seven Deadly Sins (1952 film) The Seven Deadly Sins (1962 film) The Muppet Show: Sex and Violence (1975) Seven (1995 film) Fullmetal Alchemist (manga series) Fullmetal Alchemist (2003 anime) Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood (2009 anime) The Seven Deadly Sins (manga series) The Seven Deadly Sins of Modern Times (painting) Re:Zero − Starting Life in Another World (light novel series) Re:Zero − Starting Life in Another World (2016 anime) Four Last Things (video game) Graveyard Keeper (2018 video game) Shazam! (comic book) Seven Deadly Enemies of Man Shazam! (2019 film) Helluva Boss (2020 animated series) Limbus Company (2023 video game) Hazbin Hotel (2024 animated series) Related Seven Heavenly Virtues Seven Social Sins Sin Christian views on sin Christian views on the Old Covenant Hamartiology Peter Binsfeld Catholicism portal Authority control databases International GND FAST National United States France BnF data Israel Other IdRef Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hubris&oldid=1326251740 " Categories : Narcissism Barriers to critical thinking Pride Psychological attitude Religious terminology Seven deadly sins Concepts in ancient Greek ethics Hidden categories: Pages with missing ISBNs Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from December 2022 Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference CS1 interwiki-linked names Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles that may contain original research from August 2023 All articles that may contain original research Commons category link from Wikidata Articles containing Welsh-language text Articles containing Danish-language text Articles containing Japanese-language text Articles containing Portuguese-language text Articles containing German-language text