https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traction_motor

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Electric motor for vehicle propulsion "Traction drive" redirects here. For the torque transmission mechanism, see friction drive . A ZQDR-410 traction motor (the large, dark component on the axle with small ventilation holes) A traction motor is an electric motor used for propulsion of a vehicle, such as locomotives , electric or hydrogen vehicles , or electric multiple unit trains. Traction motors are used in electrically powered railway vehicles ( electric multiple units ) and other electric vehicles including electric milk floats , trolleybuses , elevators , roller coasters , and conveyor systems , as well as vehicles with electrical transmission systems ( diesel–electric locomotives , electric hybrid vehicles ), and battery electric vehicles . Traction motor companies [ edit ] The Swansea and Mumbles Railway ran the world's first passenger tram service in 1807 The Lichterfelde tram in Berlin, 1882 Main article: History of trams The word traction from Latin , being the agent noun of trahere "to pull" in the sense of "drawn" [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] was used for the naming of traction engines developed circa 1870. [ 4 ] The first experimental electric traction motor tramway of 1875 was rapidly developed internationally for city use. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] In the 19th century traction motor passenger car companies began to compete with the dominant citywide horse-drawn railway transportation system. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Motor types and control [ edit ] Direct-current motors with series field windings are the oldest type of traction motors. These provide a speed-torque characteristic useful for propulsion, providing high torque at lower speeds for the acceleration of the vehicle, and declining torque as speed increases. By arranging the field winding with multiple taps, the speed characteristic can be varied, allowing relatively smooth operator control of acceleration. A further measure of control is provided by using pairs of motors on a vehicle in series-parallel control ; for slow operation or heavy loads, two motors can be run in a series of the direct-current supply. Where higher speed is desired, these motors can be operated in parallel, making a higher voltage available at each motor and so allowing higher speeds. Parts of a rail system might use different voltages, with higher voltages in long runs between stations and lower voltages near stations where only slower operation is needed. A variant of the DC system is the AC series motor, also known as the universal motor , which is essentially the same device but operates on alternating current . Since both the armature and field current reverse at the same time, the behavior of the motor is similar to that when energized with direct current. To achieve better operating conditions, AC railways are often supplied with current at a lower frequency than the commercial supply used for general lighting and power; special traction current power stations are used, or rotary converters used to convert 50 or 60 Hz commercial power to the 25 Hz or 16 + 2 ⁄ 3 Hz frequency used for AC traction motors. Because it permits the simple use of transformers , the AC system allows efficient distribution of power down the length of a rail line, and also permits speed control with switchgear on the vehicle. AC induction motors and synchronous motors are simple and low maintenance, but up until the advent of power semiconductors , were awkward to apply for traction motors because of their fixed speed characteristic. An AC induction motor generates useful amounts of power only over a narrow speed range determined by its construction and the frequency of the AC power supply. The advent of power semiconductors has made it possible to fit a variable frequency drive on a locomotive; this allows a wide range of speeds, AC power transmission, and the use of rugged induction motors that do not have wearing parts like brushes and commutators. [ 11 ] Transportation applications [ edit ] Road vehicles [ edit ] See also: Hybrid electric vehicle and battery electric vehicle Traditionally road vehicles (cars, buses, and trucks) have used diesel and petrol engines with a mechanical or hydraulic transmission system. In the latter part of the 20th century, vehicles with electrical transmission systems (powered by internal combustion engines , batteries, or fuel cells ) began to be developed—one advantage of using electric machines is that specific types can regenerate energy (i.e. act as a regenerative brake )—providing deceleration as well as increasing overall efficiency by charging the battery pack. Railways [ edit ] Swiss Rhaetian Railway Ge 6/6 I Krokodil locomotive, with a single large traction motor above each bogie, with drive by coupling rods Traditionally, these were series-wound brushed DC motors , usually running on approximately 600 volts. The availability of high-powered semiconductors ( thyristors and the IGBT ) has now made practical the use of much simpler, higher-reliability AC induction motors known as asynchronous traction motors. Synchronous AC motors are also occasionally used, as in the French TGV . Mounting of motors [ edit ] Before the mid-20th century, a single large motor was often used to drive multiple driving wheels through connecting rods that were very similar to those used on steam locomotives . Examples are the Pennsylvania Railroad DD1 , FF1 and L5 and the various Swiss Crocodiles . It is now standard practice to provide one traction motor driving each axle through a gear drive. Nose-suspended DC traction motor for a Czech ČD class 182 locomotive Usually, the traction motor is three-point suspended between the bogie frame and the driven axle; this is referred to as a "nose-suspended traction motor". The problem with such an arrangement is that a portion of the motor's weight is unsprung , increasing unwanted forces on the track. In the case of the famous Pennsylvania Railroad GG1 , two frame-mounted motors drove each axle through a quill drive . The " Bi-Polar " electric locomotives built by General Electric for the Milwaukee Road had direct drive motors. The rotating shaft of the motor was also the axle for the wheels. In the case of French TGV power cars , a motor mounted to the power car's frame drives each axle; a "tripod" drive allows a small amount of flexibility in the drive train allowing the trucks bogies to pivot. By mounting the relatively heavy traction motor directly to the power car's frame, rather than to the bogie, better dynamics are obtained, allowing better high-speed operation. [ 12 ] Rating [ edit ] Electric locomotives usually have a continuous and one-hour rating. The one-hour rating is the maximum power that the motors can continuously develop over one hour without overheating. Such a test starts with the motors at +25 °C (and the outside air used for ventilation also at +25 °C). In the USSR, per GOST 2582-72 with class N insulation, the maximum temperatures allowed for DC motors were 160 °C for the armature, 180 °C for the stator, and 105 °C for the collector. [ 13 ] The one-hour rating is typically about 10% higher than the continuous rating and is limited by the temperature rise in the motor. As traction motors use a reduction gear setup to transfer torque from the motor armature to the driven axle, the actual load placed on the motor varies with the gear ratio. Otherwise "identical" traction motors can have significantly different load rating. A traction motor geared for freight use with a low gear ratio will safely produce higher torque at the wheels for a longer period at the same current level because the lower gears give the motor more mechanical advantage. In diesel-electric and gas turbine-electric locomotives , the horsepower rating of the traction motors is usually around 81% that of the prime mover . This assumes that the electrical generator converts 90% of the engine's output into electrical energy and the traction motors convert 90% of this electrical energy back into mechanical energy. [ citation needed ] Calculation: 0.9 × 0.9 = 0.81 Individual traction motor ratings usually range up 1,600 kW (2,100 hp). Another important factor when traction motors are designed or specified is operational speed. The motor armature has a maximum safe rotating speed at or below which the windings will stay safely in place. Above this maximum speed centrifugal force on the armature will cause the windings to be thrown outward. In severe cases, this can lead to "birdnesting" as the windings contact the motor housing and eventually break loose from the armature entirely and uncoil. Bird-nesting (the centrifugal ejection of the armature's windings) due to overspeed can occur either in operating traction motors of powered locomotives or in traction motors of dead-in-consist locomotives being transported within a train traveling too fast. Another cause is replacement of worn or damaged traction motors with units incorrectly geared for the application. Damage from overloading and overheating can also cause bird-nesting below rated speeds when the armature assembly and winding supports and retainers have been damaged by the previous abuse. Cooling [ edit ] Because of the high power levels involved, traction motors are almost always cooled using forced air, water or a special dielectric liquid . Typical cooling systems on U.S. diesel-electric locomotives consist of an electrically powered fan blowing air into a passage integrated into the locomotive frame. Rubber cooling ducts connect the passage to the individual traction motors and cooling air travels down and across the armatures before being exhausted to the atmosphere. Manufacturers [ edit ] Main article: List of traction motor manufacturers See also [ edit ] Electric motor Electric vehicle Electric vehicle battery Induction motor & Three-phase AC railway electrification Brushed DC electric motor Diesel–electric powertrain References [ edit ] ^ Ainsworth, Robert (1808). Thesaurus Linguæ Latinæ Compendiarus, Or A Compendious Dictionary of the Latin Tongue ... By Mr. Robert Ainsworth . J. Johnson, J. Nichols and son, R. Baldwin [...] Tractus part. (à traho) 1. Drawn, pulled; dragged. ^ Houghton Mifflin (2000). The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (4th ed.). Boston and New York: Houghton Mifflin. pp. 1829 . ISBN 978-0-395-82517-4 . ^ Merriam-Webster Unabridged (MWU). (Online subscription-based reference service of Merriam-Webster , based on Webster's Third New International Dictionary, Unabridged. Merriam-Webster, 2002.) Headword tractor . Accessed 2007-09-22. ^ Burton, Anthony (2000). Traction Engines: Two Centuries of Steam Power . Chartwell Books. ISBN 978-0-7858-1172-5 . ^ Popular Mechanics . Hearst Magazines. May 1929. ^ "Frank Sprague | Lemelson" . lemelson.mit.edu . Retrieved 22 December 2024 . ^ William Edward Ayrton ; John Perry (January 29, 1884). "Traction Motor | Patented No. 292,529" (PDF) . ^ Ordinances of the City of Philadelphia . GMC. 1898. p. 134. Regulating licenses to passenger railway and traction motor companies for operating cars... ^ Haupt, Herman (1893). Street railway motors . H.C. Baird & Company. The subjects here considered are horse railroads steam motors cable traction electric roads com pressed air motors ammonia motors hot water motors gas motors and carbonic acid motors ^ United States Census Office: Report on Transportation Business in the United States at the Eleventh Census: 1890: Street railways . U.S. Government Printing Office. 1892. p. 10. ^ Andreas Steimel Electric Traction - Motive Power and Energy Supply: Basics and Practical Experience Oldenbourg Industrieverlag, 2008 ISBN 3835631322 ; Chapter 6 "Induction Traction Motors and Their Control" ^ "TGVweb - "Under the Hood" of a TGV" . www.trainweb.org . Archived from the original on 2017-06-13 . Retrieved 2017-12-12 . ^ Сидоров 1980, p.47 Bibliography [ edit ] British Railways (1962). "Section 13: Traction Control". Diesel Traction Manual for Enginemen (1st ed.). British Transport Commission. pp. 172– 189. Bolton, William F. (1963). The Railwayman's Diesel Manual (4th ed.). pp. 107– 111, 184– 190. External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Traction motors . "Deconstructing a traction motor - Associated Rewinds (Ireland) Limited" Image of a nose mounted traction motor on an R46 New York City Subway car. The motor can be clearly seen behind the axle with the gear box with the writing on it in the center. Another nose mounted traction motor on a wrecked R38 Subway car. Coney Island Truck Repair shop; many pictures regarding traction motors Detached truck with Traction Motors. v t e Electric machines AC - Alternating current DC - Direct current PM - Permanent magnet Components Rotor Stator Winding Armature Field coil Damper winding Slip ring Commutator Brush Generators AC generator Alternator Flux switching alternator Linear alternator PM synchronous generator Magneto Induction generator Doubly fed induction generator Single-phase generator DC generator Dynamo Homopolar generator Motors AC motor Induction motor Shaded-pole motor Dahlander pole changing motor Wound rotor motor Linear induction motor Doubly fed electric machine Synchronous motor Repulsion motor DC motor Brushed DC electric motor Brushless DC electric motor Stepper motor Homopolar motor Universal motor Reluctance motor Switched reluctance motor Synchronous reluctance motor Axial flux motor Radial flux motor PM motor Dual-rotor motor Linear motor Ball bearing motor Electrostatic motor Piezoelectric motor Ultrasonic motor Servomotor Traction motor TEFC motor Motor controllers and other accessories AC-to-AC converter Cycloconverter Amplidyne Drives Variable-frequency drive Direct torque control Vector control Metadyne Motor soft starter Ward Leonard control Braking chopper DC injection brake module History, education, recreational use Timeline of the electric motor Barlow's wheel Lynch motor Mendocino motor Mouse mill motor Experimental, futuristic Coilgun Railgun Superconducting machine Related topics Blocked-rotor test Circle diagram Coil winding technology Electromagnetism Open-circuit test Open-loop controller Power-to-weight ratio Two-phase system Inchworm motor Starter Voltage controller People Arago Barlow Botto Davenport Davidson Dolivo-Dobrovolsky Faraday Ferraris Gramme Henry Jacobi Jedlik Lenz Maxwell Ørsted Park Pacinotti Pixii Saxton Siemens Sprague Steinmetz Sturgeon Tesla Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Traction_motor&oldid=1299185675 " Categories : Locomotive parts Electric motors Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2018 Commons category link is on Wikidata