https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-sealing_fuel_tank

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fuel container that automatically seals when punctured Self-sealing fuel tank of Me 262 A self-sealing fuel tank ( SSFT ) is a type of fuel tank, typically used in aircraft fuel tanks or fuel bladders , that prevents them from leaking fuel and igniting after being damaged. Typical self-sealing tanks have layers of rubber and reinforcing fabric, one of vulcanized rubber and one of untreated natural rubber, which can absorb fuel when it comes into contact with it. When a fuel tank is punctured the fuel seeps into these layers, causing the untreated layer to swell, closing and thus sealing the puncture. A similar concept is also employed for making self-sealing run-flat tires . History [ edit ] World War I [ edit ] George J. Murdock applied for the patent "War Aeroplane Fuel Tanks" on February 7, 1917 but was temporarily blocked by an order of the Federal Trade Commission , on February 6, 1918, to keep any discussion or publication of the invention secret. The order was rescinded by the United States Patent Office on September 26, 1918 and Murdock was eventually granted U.S. patent 1,386,791 "Self-Puncture Sealing Covering for Fuel-Containers" on August 9, 1921. Military aircraft built by the Glenn L. Martin Company used this self-sealing fuel tank. Howard Hughes used neoprene to self-seal his fuel tanks on his 1938 around the world flight . [ 1 ] World War II [ edit ] In the newer generations of pre-war and early-war aircraft, self-sealing tanks were used to minimize the damage from leaking or burning fuel. A conventional fuel tank, when hit by gunfire, could leak fuel rapidly. This would not only reduce the aircraft's range but was also a significant fire hazard. Damaged fuel tanks could also rupture, destroying the airframe or critically affecting flight characteristics . It was realized that, because of weight limitations, it was not practical to simply add armor plate to aircraft fuel tanks; a method of stopping fuel leaking from damaged tanks was necessary. Early attempts at protecting fuel tanks consisted of using metal tanks, covered inside or outside by a material that expanded after being pierced. Research revealed that the exit of the projectile, rather than the entry, was the greater problem, as it often tumbled, thus creating a larger exit hole. Among the earliest versions of these types of tanks were those manufactured in the UK at Portsmouth Airport by Fireproof Tanks Ltd (formed in 1939). These tanks were first installed in the Fairey Battle light bomber with other versions installed in Supermarine Spitfire and Hawker Hurricane fighters and larger aircraft such as the Avro Lancaster heavy bomber. The Henderson Safety Tank Company provided crash-proof self-sealing fuel and oil tanks which were fitted "as standard" to the Miles Master trainer. [ 2 ] German aircraft designers used layers of rubber laid over leather hide with a treated fiber inner surface for the self-sealing tanks on the Junkers Ju 88 early in the war. [ 3 ] Manufacture of self-sealing gas tanks at Goodyear, 1941 In the United States, Ernst Eger of United States Rubber Company (later Uniroyal ) patented [ 4 ] a self-sealing fuel tank design in 1941, one of many companies involved in developing this technology during the war. Elmo E. Hanson, lead chemist for Firestone Tire and Rubber Company filed a patent for self sealing tanks on January 21, 1941, U.S. patent 2,404,766 . Goodyear chemist James Merrill filed a patent in 1941 (published in 1947) for refining and  testing his method for manufacturing self-sealing tanks using a two-layer system of rubber compounds encased in a metal outer shell or the wing lining of the aircraft. [ 5 ] In 1942, he received a War Production Board citation and the Goodyear tanks were subsequently placed in service in Goodyear-produced Vought F4U Corsair fighters, as well as other aircraft. By 1942 Fireproof Tanks had developed the first flexible fuel bladders as range extender tanks for the Spitfire Mk IX . These tanks were flexible containers, made of a laminated self-sealing material like vulcanized rubber and with as few seams as possible to minimize leak paths. The same principles were applied to give self-sealing fuel lines in aircraft (MIL-PRF-7061C). As early tests showed that impact could over-pressurize a fuel tank, the self-sealing fuel cell is suspended, allowing it to absorb shocks without rupture. U.S. Navy fuel tanks during the war were able to withstand .50 in (12.7 mm) bullets and, on occasion, 20 mm (0.79 in) autocannon shells. Self-sealing tanks also tended to have lower capacity than non-sealed tanks. Also implementation of self-sealing technology into aircraft fuel tanks had the chief drawback of making the aircraft heavier (and thus slower, less maneuverable, and of lower endurance and operational range). The Mitsubishi A6M Zero was not designed with self-sealing tanks, even though the technology was available, since maneuverability and endurance were viewed as more important at the time. [ 6 ] Aircraft that were fitted with self-sealing tanks managed to withstand much more damage than those with conventional fuel tanks. For instance, combat experience in the Pacific War showed that the self-sealing fuel tank-equipped American aircraft had better chances of surviving damage to fuel tanks than the Japanese aircraft designs without self-sealing fuel tanks, such as the Mitsubishi A6M Zero . Modern use [ edit ] Most jet fighters and all U.S. military rotary wing aircraft use some type of self-sealing tanks. Military rotary wing fuel tanks have the additional feature of being crashworthy . [ 7 ] High altitudes require the tanks to be pressurized, making self-sealing difficult. Newer technologies have brought advances like inert foam-filled tanks to prevent detonation. This foam is an open cell foam that effectively divides the gas space above the remaining fuel into thousands of small spaces, none of which contain sufficient vapour to support combustion. This foam also serves to reduce fuel slosh . Major manufacturers of this technology include Hutchinson, Amfuel (ex. Zodiac ) (formerly Firestone ), Meggitt (formerly Goodyear ), Robertson Fuel Systems, GKN USA, FPT Industries , and Safran Aerosystems. [ 8 ] FPT is now part of GKN. [ 9 ] For military use, tanks are qualified to MIL-DTL-27422 (includes crashworthiness requirements) or MIL-DTL-5578 (non-crashworthy). An aircraft fuel tank sometimes consists of several interconnected fuel cells. The interconnecting hoses are typically also self-sealing. [ 10 ] In addition to military aircraft, some military vehicles feature self-sealing fuel tanks, such as the United States Marine Corps' LAV-AT armored vehicles. [ 11 ] A notable example of a non-military vehicle that uses self-sealing fuel tanks is the U.S. presidential state car , having used them since John F. Kennedy 's SS-100-X . [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Self-sealing fuel tanks using military technology are also required in some motorsport categories. [ citation needed ] See also [ edit ] Index of aviation articles References [ edit ] Notes [ edit ] ^ Dietrich, Noah; Thomas, Bob (1972). Howard, The Amazing Mr. Hughes . Greenwich: Fawcett Publications, Inc. p. 136. ^ "Henderson (advertisement)" . Flight . 25 July 1940. p. 2. Archived from the original on 25 October 2012 – via flightglobal.com. ^ "the Ingenious Ju-88" , Flight : f, 1940, archived from the original on 5 March 2016 ^ Puncture Sealing Gas Tank ^ US patent 2424701 , Merrill, "Fuel tank casing", issued 1947-07-29 USPTO text and images ^ Panko, Ray (29 November 2017). "The Problem with Self-Sealing Fuel Tanks: Capacity, not Weight" . Pearl Harbor Aviation Museum . Retrieved 29 December 2022 . ^ A Study of Helicopter Crash-Resistant Fuel Systems ^ "About Safran Aerosystems" . ^ "About GKN (Company History - Portsmouth)" . Archived from the original on February 25, 2008 . Retrieved December 5, 2011 . ^ "UH-60A Student Handbook" (PDF) . United States Army Warfighting Center. 2008. pp. D-3. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 5, 2012 . Retrieved December 5, 2011 . ^ Jones, Colton. "U.S. Marine Corps' Light Armored Vehicles to receive new self-sealing fuel tanks" . Defence Blog . Retrieved 12 September 2022 . ^ Magazines, Hearst (January 1993). Popular Mechanics . Hearst Magazines. ^ Greenberg, Peter (2013-10-17). "Inside the President's armored limo" . Autoweek . Retrieved 2021-01-12 . Sources [ edit ] Dunn, Richard L. (2011). Exploding Fuel Tanks - Saga of technology that changed the course of the Pacific air war. ISBN 978-1-4507-7305-8 Gustin, Emmanuel (1999). Fighter Armour . Retrieved Aug. 4, 2005. "The Story of the Self-Sealing Tank". (Feb. 1946). US Naval Institute Proceedings , pp. 205. External links [ edit ] James A Merrill receiving citation from President Roosevelt (1942) Installation of a Self-Sealing Materials Systems in a C-130 Integral Fuel Tank Wing - DTIC Popular Science , November 1941 Lining Will Seal Bullet Holes In Bombers Fuel System see bottom half of page Gunfire Qualification Test of Self-Sealing Fuel Cells Self-sealing Fuel Tank Demonstration v t e Aircraft fuel tanks Internal tanks Ferry tank Inerting system Self-sealing fuel tank Tokyo tanks Wet wing External tanks Conformal fuel tank Drop tank Related topics Aircraft fuel system v t e Aircraft components and systems Airframe structure Aft pressure bulkhead Cabane strut Canopy Crack arrestor Cruciform tail Dope Empennage Fabric covering Fairing Flying wires Former Fuselage Hardpoint Interplane strut Jury strut Leading edge Lift strut Longeron Nacelle Rib Spar Stabilizer Stressed skin Strut T-tail Tailplane Trailing edge Triple tail Twin tail V-tail Vertical stabilizer Wing root Wing tip Wingbox Flight controls Aileron Airbrake Artificial feel Autopilot Canard Centre stick Deceleron Dive brake Dual control Electro-hydraulic actuator Elevator Elevon Flaperon Flight control modes Fly-by-wire Gust lock HOTAS Rudder Rudder pedals Servo tab Side-stick Spoiler Spoileron Stabilator Stick pusher Stick shaker Trim tab Wing warping Yaw damper Yoke Aerodynamic and high-lift devices Active Aeroelastic Wing Adaptive compliant wing Anti-shock body Blown flap Channel wing Dog-tooth Drag-reducing aerospike Flap Gouge flap Gurney flap Krueger flap Leading-edge cuff Leading-edge droop flap LEX Slats Slot Stall strips Strake Variable-sweep wing Vortex generator Vortilon Wing fence Winglet Avionic and flight instrument systems ACAS Air data boom Air data computer Aircraft periscope Airspeed indicator Altimeter Annunciator panel Astrodome Attitude indicator Compass Course deviation indicator EFIS EICAS Flight management system Glass cockpit GPS Head-up display Heading indicator Horizontal situation indicator INS ISIS Multi-function display Pitot–static system Radar altimeter TCAS Transponder Turn and slip indicator Variometer Yaw string Propulsion controls, devices and fuel systems Autothrottle Drop tank FADEC Fuel tank Gascolator Inlet cone Intake ramp NACA cowling NACA duct Self-sealing fuel tank Splitter plate Throttle Thrust lever Thrust reversal Townend ring War emergency power Wet wing Landing and arresting gear Aircraft tire Arrestor hook Autobrake Conventional landing gear Drogue parachute Landing gear Landing gear extender Oleo strut Tricycle landing gear Tundra tire Escape systems Ejection seat Escape crew capsule Other systems Aircraft lavatory Auxiliary power unit Bleed air system Deicing boot Emergency oxygen system Environmental control system Flight recorder Hydraulic system Ice protection system In-flight entertainment system Landing lights Navigation light Passenger service unit Ram air turbine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Self-sealing_fuel_tank&oldid=1328329588 " Categories : Aircraft fuel system components Fuel containers Military aviation Hidden categories: CS1: unfit URL Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2018