https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69664360/ineos-grenadier-game-viewer-revealed

Ineos The Ineos Grenadier Game Viewer is here to take you on your next safari. B uilt by a Botswana-based specialist, it's highly customizable and comes with a full Ineos warranty. Examples will be going into service within the next month, but pricing hasn't been announced. Based in Botswana, Kavango Engineering knows a thing or two about safari conversions. For years, the company took Toyota Land Cruisers and Land Rover Defenders and built them up for the purpose of wildlife viewing out in rough country. Two years ago, off-road manufacturer Ineos bought up Kavango Engineering and brought its expertise in-house. The fruits of that partnership will soon be seen anywhere tourists go on safari. It's called the Grenadier Game Viewer, and examples are set to go into service as early as next month. Essentially a long- or extra-long-wheelbase Grenadier with the fixed roof removed, the Game Viewer features seating for up to nine passengers, with the rear seats raised stadium style so everyone gets a good look at the elephants and giraffes. For Sale Near You See all results for Ineos Grenadier Station Wagon for sale near 73130 Ineos Given that the original Grenadier springs directly from founder Sir Jim Ratcliffe's attempt to first continue to build old-shape Defenders—and then create a successor that embodies that spirit—the Game Viewer couldn't be more fitting. For decades, Land Rovers have been taking people into the wild places of Africa, first as hunters and explorers, later as wildlife sanctuary management teams and tourists. Building out a Grenadier to do this work just makes sense. And tapping Botswana-based expertise is the smart way to do it. Kavango built the first safari-prepped Grenadier back in 2022, and as of next month, four Game Viewers will go into service at Hidden Lodge, a high-end wilderness retreat in the Eastern Cape of South Africa. Ineos Along with a slightly raised ride height versus the standard Grenadier, the original Game Viewer featured a right-weight canvas top that rolls back when not in use. Probably the trickiest part of the conversion was relocating the Grenadier's chunky overhead switchgear down the centre console. Customers for the Game Viewer can spec out their safari machines with a high degree of customization, with seating for four to nine passengers. Kavango is currently capable of building as many as 200 safari conversions per year, and it also supports various specialist vehicles in use for all manner of wildlife care, from veterinary to anti-poaching. Ineos What's unique about the Game Viewer is that it will come with the standard Ineos Grenadier warranty coverage. For lodges and safari companies looking for a turnkey solution, it seems ideal. And given that Sir Ratcliffe is said to have had the original thought for his uncompromising SUV while in Botswana on safari, it's almost as if the Game Viewer is the Grenadier story coming around to the beginning. A circle of life, you might say. Related Stories Ineos Grenadier Quartermaster: Slow but Charming An Ineos Grenadier with Portal Axles? It's Coming Ineos Grenadier Test: Spite Defender ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars From: Car and Driver Brendan McAleer Contributing Editor Brendan McAleer is a freelance writer and photographer based in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada. He grew up splitting his knuckles on British automobiles, came of age in the golden era of Japanese sport-compact performance, and began writing about cars and people in 2008. His particular interest is the intersection between humanity and machinery, whether it is the racing career of Walter Cronkite or Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's half-century obsession with the Citroën 2CV. He has taught both of his young daughters how to shift a manual transmission and is grateful for the excuse they provide to be perpetually buying Hot Wheels.