https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69698320/lotus-eletre-suv-plug-in-hybrid-details

MIIT Lotus announced its first plug-in hybrid model in China, which the company is calling the "For Me." The new PHEV Lotus is based on the Eletre SUV and uses the same 2.0-liter four-cylinder found in the Zeekr 9X. The decision to give the Eletre a gas-fed engine is a change in direction for Lotus, which previously planned to be EV-only by 2028. Like so many other automakers, Lotus is backpedaling from its previously ambitious electrification goals. The small British automaker previously announced plans to go full-EV by 2028, but Lotus CEO Qingfeng Feng said last year that it would instead add plug-in hybrid models to its lineup. That day has now arrived, with Lotus showing its first PHEV model on China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) site earlier this week. The brand is calling the new PHEV the "For Me." If you think the For Me looks eerily similar to the EV-only Eletre SUV, that's because it is. Despite going by a different name, the new PHEV is really just a new version of the Eletre. The plug-in version gets a slightly redesigned front grille and some new badging around back, but the two models are otherwise visually identical. For Sale Near You See all results for 2025 Lotus Eletre for sale near 48083 MIIT The real differences are underneath the sheetmetal, with the For Me utilizing the same turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder as the Chinese Zeekr 9X SUV. On its own, the four-cylinder makes nearly 280 horsepower and can be used to power the front wheels directly or as a generator to recharge the battery pack. Paired with the model's two electric motors, the total output for the system skyrockets to 952 horsepower, making it the most powerful version of the Eletre. While the addition of the engine necessitated a smaller battery—now 70 kWh compared with the EV's 107-kWh pack—its voltage has increased from 800 to 900 volts. The same pack in the Zeekr can reportedly charge from 30 to 80 percent in just eight minutes. The Eletre is the first model in the Lotus lineup to get the PHEV treatment, but it won't be the last. A plug-in version of the Emira sports car is planned for 2027, and a hybrid version of the Emeya electric sedan could follow in a similar timeframe. The Lotus For Me will go on sale in China early next year, with a European debut expected sometime in the second half of 2026. Whether that means the plug-in hybrid model makes its way to the United States is unclear, but given the current tariff situation on vehicles originating from China, it is unlikely we'll see it anytime soon. More on Lotus Report: Lotus Backtracks on EVs, Will Offer PHEVs This Lotus Esprit Restomod Looks Rad 2024 Lotus Eletre Is More Plush Than Performer ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Jack Fitzgerald Associate News Editor Jack Fitzgerald’s love for cars stems from his as yet unshakable addiction to Formula 1. After a brief stint as a detailer for a local dealership group in college, he knew he needed a more permanent way to drive all the new cars he couldn’t afford and decided to pursue a career in auto writing. By hounding his college professors at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, he was able to travel Wisconsin seeking out stories in the auto world before landing his dream job at Car and Driver . His new goal is to delay the inevitable demise of his 2010 Volkswagen Golf.