https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69383764/2026-toyota-hilux-electric-reveal

VIEW GALLERY Toyota File this under “yet another vehicle we don’t get in the States.” The ninth-generation Hilux, what Toyota calls the world’s most famous pickup, will see a battery-electric version added to its deep and varied lineup, to sit alongside hybrid-, diesel-, gasoline-, and, Toyota promises, future hydrogen fuel-cell-powered versions. Related Stories Toyota, Lexus, Daihatsu at Japan Mobility  Show Toyota Shocks SEMA with 300-HP Hybrid Side-by-Side The battery-electric Hilux uses a 59.2-kWh lithium-ion battery and twin e-axles delivering permanent all-wheel drive. Toyota says the electric pickup produces 151 lb-ft (205 Nm) of torque at the front axle and 198 lb-ft (269 Nm) at the rear, with a driving range of around 149 miles on the optimistic WLTP cycle. The truck can carry a 1,576-pound payload and tow up to 3,525 kg, with off-road capability on par to the diesel-powered model. Toyota says a new 48-volt hybrid model will serve as the volume seller in Western Europe, powered by a 2.8-liter diesel engine married to an integrated motor-generator. This mild-hybrid setup is rated for a 1-ton payload and will tow up to 3.5 tons. VIEW GALLERY Toyota Toyota also reiterated that a hydrogen fuel-cell Hilux will join the lineup in 2028, further emphasizing the automaker’s commitment to developing multiple alternative-fuel paths. All Hilux models for 2026 will be Double Cabs and feature all-wheel drive. Toyota says the interior takes its cues from its new Land Cruiser, centered around a 12.3-inch digital display and 12.3-inch multimedia touchscreen. Wireless charging, connected services, and a revamped Toyota Safety Sense suite are all standard or available, with new features like Proactive Driving Assist, Low-Speed Acceleration Suppression, and an Emergency Driving Stop System. Related Stories Toyota Corolla Cross Nasu Edition: a Bit Off-Roady Hydrogen Toyota Tacoma 4-Wheels into SEMA Outside, the BEV variant drops the traditional grille in favor of a smooth, aerodynamic front fascia. Toyota says its approach reflects a global strategy: hybrid and electric Hiluxes for Western Europe, diesel and petrol versions for markets where charging infrastructure remains limited, no Hiluxes for us. Pricing will be Natalie Neff But for a couple of sketchy, short-lived gigs right out of college, Natalie Neff has had the good fortune to spend the entirety of her professional life around cars. A 2017 Honda Ridgeline, 1972 VW Beetle, 1999 Ducati Monster and a well-loved purple-and-white five-speed Schwinn currently call her garage home.