https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69809546/honda-jet-s-trim-level-reveal

Honda Honda is offering an S package retrofit for its early production Honda Jets. The package offers better handling, crosswind stability, and 300 pounds more takeoff weight. No prices were listed but a new HondaJet Elite S/II starts at about $5 million. Used models can be found from $2.5 to $3.5 million. If you have to ask... Honda has delivered over 250 jets to customers since starting deliveries of its HondaJet in late 2015, hitting the 250th milestone in January 2024. By the end of 2024, total deliveries reached around 259, with more moved out hangar doors this year. But those early purchasers don't have to miss out on all the improvements available on later models. Owners of early production HondaJets can now upgrade their aircraft with technical innovations introduced on more recent iterations of the platform, Honda says. The Advanced Performance Modification Group package includes avionics software and hardware that deliver faster processing speeds and enable future innovation across the legacy HondaJet fleet. These enhancements also bring key features from the HondaJet Elite S – such as the Advanced Steering Augmentation System (ASAS) – to a wider portion of the fleet. These advancements support handling precision and expand crosswind capability. There's also a 300-pound increase in Maximum Takeoff Weight (MTOW). Pilots can get Graphical Weight and Balance features, enabling them to input loading and fuel data to estimate takeoff and landing weights. The news doesn’t apply to the newest HondaJet models, really only about half of the jets in service, the oldest ones.  It brings much of the tech close, but not quite, to the level of the Elite II. Imagine pulling up to the hangar with your new HondaJet APMG S ! All the other billionaires will be jealous! Off We Go ICON A5 Aims to Revolutionize flying: We Test It Kodiak 900 Is the SUV of the Skies Honda Aircraft Company says it will offer the APMG S modifications package through the company’s Greensboro Service Center as well as its global network of 21 Authorized Service Centers. The company has already modified several pre-owned HondaJet aircraft with the upgrades, which are available through its pre-owned aircraft program. Honda Performance and prestige! More HondaJet news: In 2023, the company announced plans to develop and produce its newest 11-occupant aircraft, the HondaJet Echelon, which will be offered alongside the HondaJet Elite II. The only thing missing? Chrome rims like the ones used in the movie Soul Plane , starring Snoop Dogg as a pilot for NWA Airlines. No word on that upgrade. Yet. Mark Vaughn Mark Vaughn grew up in a Ford family and spent many hours holding a trouble light over a straight-six miraculously fed by a single-barrel carburetor while his father cursed the Blue Oval, all its products and everyone who ever worked there. This was his introduction to objective automotive criticism. He started writing for City News Service in Los Angeles, then moved to Europe and became editor of a car magazine called, creatively, Auto. He decided Auto should cover Formula 1, sports prototypes and touring cars—no one stopped him! From there he interviewed with Autoweek at the 1989 Frankfurt motor show and has been with us ever since.