https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hatmaking

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Manufacture and design of hats and headwear "Hatter" redirects here. For Hatter (disambiguation), see Hatter (disambiguation) . "Hatmaker" redirects here. For the unincorporated community, see Hatmaker, Michigan . For the author and speaker, see Jen Hatmaker . "Milliner" redirects here. For people named Milliner, see Milliner (surname) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Hatmaking" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Millinery Department at the Lion Store of Toledo, Ohio, 1900s The Millinery Shop by Edgar Degas Hat-making or millinery is the design , manufacture and sale of hats and other headwear. [ 1 ] A person engaged in this trade is called a milliner or hatter . Historically, milliners made and sold a range of accessories for clothing and hairstyles. [ 2 ] In France, milliners are known as marchand(e)s de modes ( fashion merchants ), rather than being specifically associated with hat-making. In Britain, however, milliners were known to specialize in hats by the beginning of the Victorian period . [ 3 ] The millinery industry benefited from industrialization during the 19th century. [ 4 ] In 1889, in London and Paris, over 8,000 women were employed in millinery, and in 1900 in New York, some 83,000 people, mostly women, were employed in millinery. [ citation needed ] Though the improvements in technology provided benefits to milliners and the whole industry, essential skills, craftsmanship, and creativity are still required. Since hats began to be mass-manufactured and sold as ready-to-wear in department stores , the term "milliner" is usually used to describe a person who applies traditional hand-craftsmanship to design, make, sell or trim hats primarily for a mostly female clientele. Many prominent fashion designers , including Rose Bertin , Jeanne Lanvin , and Coco Chanel , began as milliners. Origin of milliner [ edit ] The term "milliner" or "Milener" originally meant someone from Milan , in northern Italy, in the early 16th century. It referred to Milanese merchants who sold fancy bonnets, gloves, jewellery and cutlery. In the 16th to 18th centuries, the meaning of "milliner" gradually changed in meaning from "a foreign merchant" to "a dealer in small articles relating to dress". Although the term originally applied to men, from 1713 "milliner" gradually came to mean a woman who makes and sells bonnets and other accessories for women. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Learning of millinery [ edit ] The millinery industry's apprenticeship culture is commonly seen since the 18th century, while milliner was more like a stylist and created hats or bonnets to go with costumes and chose the laces, trims, and accessories to complete an ensemble piece. Millinery apprentices learned hat-making and styling, running the business, and skills to communicate with customers. [ 7 ] Nowadays, this apprenticeship is still a standard process for the students who freshly graduated from the millinery schools. Many well-known milliners experienced this stage. For example, Rose Bertin was an apprentice to a successful fashion merchant Mademoiselle Pagelle before her success. There are many renowned millinery schools located in Europe, especially in London , Paris , and Italy. During COVID-19 , many millinery courses were taught virtually. [ 8 ] Special tools and materials used by milliners [ edit ] A wooden hat block is an intricately carved wood form shaped by skillful woodworkers. Hat blocks are the tools of the trade for milliners in creating a unique hat crown shape. Some of the hat blocks are ensembles with crown and brimmed, while some are only with crown or brim or designed for fascinators . Milliners always have an extensive collection of different hat blocks because there are specific hat sizes and custom shapes for every hat block. In the blocking process of a hat, milliners used push pins and a hammer to hold the adjustable string along the crown's collar and the brim's edge. [ 9 ] A floral-making iron is a unique iron used by milliners to create different floral petals or leaves as the ornament for hat decoration. In the past, candles were used to heat these irons with various shapes of metal in one set. Nowadays, these irons are electric. A ball-shaped metal heading is commonly used for the curve of floral pastels. [ 10 ] Milliners often use buckram , a stiff cotton (occasionally linen or horse hair) cloth with a loose weave. Millinery buckram is impregnated with a starch which allows it to be softened in water, pulled over a hat block , and left to dry into a hard shape. [ 11 ] Millinery buckram comes in many weights, including lightweight or baby buckram (often used for children's and dolls' hats), [ 12 ] single-ply buckram, and double buckram (also known as theatrical buckram or crown buckram ). [ 13 ] "Mad" hatters [ edit ] Main article: Mad as a hatter In 18th- and 19th-century England, mercury was used in the production of felt , which was commonly used in the hat-making trade at the time. Long-term use of mercury products often resulted in mercury poisoning -induced erethism among hat-makers. [ 14 ] [ 15 ] This is sometimes claimed to be the origin of the phrase "mad as a hatter". Notable hatters and milliners [ edit ] This is a partial list of people who have had a significant influence on hat-making and millinery. Hatters [ edit ] Giuseppe Borsalino , with the famous "Borsalino" Fedora hat John Cavanagh , an American hatter whose innovations included manufacturing regular, long and wide-oval fitting hats to enable customers to find better-fitting ready-to-wear hats Teofilo Garcia , recognized as a National Living Treasure in the Philippines for pioneering the tabungaw hat, a headwear made from gourd . [ 16 ] Hawley Products Company , an American manufacturer credited with inventing the tropical shaped, pressed fiber sun helmet used from World War II through the Persian Gulf War International Hat Company , an American manufacturer credited with inventing one of America's most popular early 20th century harvest hats for field hands, farmers, and workmen. James Lock & Co. of London (founded 1676), is credited with the introduction of the bowler hat in 1849. [ 17 ] JJ Hat Center in New York (founded 1911) an American hat maker, which claims to be New York City's oldest hat store. [ 18 ] John Batterson Stetson , credited with inventing the classic cowboy hat [ 19 ] Milliners [ edit ] Benny Andallo - 21st-century English avant-garde hat designer Kate Bartholomew – American hat designer; created the "Jazz Cap" Vanilla Beane – American milliner in Washington, D.C. ; served the African American community and notable civil rights activists , among others Anna Ben-Yusuf – wrote The Art of Millinery (1909), one of the first reference books on millinery technique [ 20 ] Rose Bertin – milliner and modiste to Marie Antoinette ; often described as the world's first celebrity fashion designer [ 21 ] Mildred Blount – first African-American milliner to design hats for Hollywood films Gone with the Wind and The Easter Parade ; clientele included Joan Crawford , Louise Beavers , Marian Anderson , Gloria Vanderbilt , and other Hollywood stars [ 22 ] John Boyd – London milliner; known for the pink tricorn hat worn by Diana, Princess of Wales [ 23 ] Coco Chanel – creator of the Chanel fashion house, and of Chanel No.5 perfume Lilly Daché – American milliner of the mid-20th century Frederick Fox –  Australian-born milliner; noted for his designs for the British royal family Akio Hirata – Japanese milliner; collaborated with many Japanese fashion designers, including Yohji Yamamoto and Rei Kawakubo ; also created and designed hats for Japanese Empress Michiko since 1966 [ 24 ] Mr. John – American milliner; considered by some to be the millinery equivalent of Christian Dior in the 1940s and 1950s [ 25 ] Stephen Jones – London milliner; considered one of the world's most radical and important milliners of the late 20th and early 21st centuries [ 26 ] Nasir Mazhar - 21st-century English hat designer Simone Mirman – known for her designs for Elizabeth II and other members of the British royal family Barbara Pauli – fashion milliner and modiste in Sweden during the Gustavian era Caroline Reboux – milliner of the 19th and early 20th centuries David Shilling – milliner, artist and designer, based in Monaco [ 27 ] Justin Smith – milliner creating bespoke and couture hats under the J Smith Esquire brand Gladys Tamez – Mexican-American milliner; notable for her work with Beyoncé , Lady Gaga , Kendall Jenner , among others Philip Treacy – Irish-born milliner; first milliner for eighty years to be invited to exhibit at the Paris haute couture shows [ 28 ] See also [ edit ] Draper Haberdasher Hat Works Mad hatter disease Mad as a hatter Marchandes de modes Walter Wright Hats References [ edit ] ^ Perry, Lorinda (November 1916). "Millinery as a Trade for Women". Monthly Review of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . 3 (5): 32– 38. JSTOR 41823177 . ^ "milliner" . Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford University Press. (Subscription or participating institution membership required.) - "2. Originally: a seller of fancy wares, accessories, and articles of (female) apparel, esp. such as were originally made in Milan. Subsequently: spec. a person who designs, makes, or sells women's hats." ^ Adburgham, Alison (1989). Shops and shopping: 1800 - 1914 ; where, and in what manner the well-dressed Englishwoman bought her clothes (2nd ed.). London: Barrie & Jenkins. p. 27. ISBN 978-0-7126-2114-4 . ^ "Straw Millinery" . If I Had My Own Blue Box . 26 March 2009 . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ "milliner, Origin and meaning of milliner by Online Etymology Dictionary" . etymonline.com . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . The original milliners were men; by 1713 the word was being used of 'a woman who makes and sells bonnets and other headgear for women,' and this was the prevailing sense of the word 19c. ^ Tréguer, Pascal (12 August 2016). "The word 'milliner' originally meant 'native or inhabitant of Milan' " . word histories . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ "Vintage Fashion Guild : Fashion History : History of Hats For Women" . vintagefashionguild.org . 19 March 2012 . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ "Upcoming Events – Millinery CoursesMillinery Courses" . Millinery Courses . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ "The Blocker Shapes and Styles the Hats – Brent Black Panama Hats" . brentblack.com . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ "flower making iron" . PresentPerfect Creations | Original hand crafted flower accessories in fine fabrics and genuine leather . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ Hart, Eric (2013). The Prop Building Guidebook: For Theatre, Film, and TV . Taylor & Francis. p. 292. ISBN 9780240821382 . ^ "The Copyist" . The Illustrated Milliner . 14 (7). The Illustrated Milliner Company: 68. July 1913 . Retrieved 8 October 2019 . ^ McMasters, Lynn (1 November 2005). "Buckram 101" . Finery . Greater Bay Area Costumers Guild . Retrieved 8 October 2019 . ^ Rees, Nigel (1987). Why Do We Say ...? . Blandford. ISBN 0-7137-1944-3 . ^ Barbara Mikkelson (13 July 2007). "Mad As a Hatter" . snopes.com . Retrieved 6 September 2009 . ^ Tobias, Maricris Jan. "GAMABA: Teofilo Garcia" . National Commission for Culture and the Arts. Archived from the original on 26 January 2022 . Retrieved 14 September 2021 . ^ Bowler hat makes a comeback Telegraph (London). Retrieved 9 June 2012 ^ The City Visible | The Hatters NYT (New York). Retrieved 4 August 2023 ^ Reynolds, William and Rich Rand (1995) The Cowboy Hat book . p. 8 ISBN 0-87905-656-8 ^ Jones, Stephen & Cullen, Oriole, ed. (2009). Hats: An Anthology . V&A Publishing. ISBN 978-1-85177-557-6 . ^ Steele, Valerie (2010). The Berg Companion to Fashion . Berg. pp. 72– 73. ISBN 978-1847885920 . Retrieved 9 June 2012 . ^ "Mildred Blount: First African American to Make Hats for Celebrities" . Black Then . 7 September 2019 . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ "John Boyd" . The FMD – FashionModelDirectory.com . ^ "Akio Hirata – Fashion Designer | Designers | The FMD" . The FMD – FashionModelDirectory.com . Retrieved 22 October 2020 . ^ Schiro, Anne-Marie (29 June 1993). "Mr. John, 91, Hat Designer for Stars and Society" . The New York Times . ^ Biography of Stephen Jones on the V&A Museum website, accessed 1 April 2009 ^ Hillier, Bevis (13 October 1985). "Hat Trick" . LA Times . Retrieved 24 January 2013 . ^ Cartner-Morley, Jess (16 April 2002). "Who wants to be a milliner" . The Guardian . He has created hats to accompany the catwalk collections of Alexander McQueen and Valentino, has been named British Accessory Designer of the Year five times, and was the first milliner in 80 years to be invited by French fashion's governing body, the Chambre Syndicale, to take part in the Parisian haute couture shows External links [ edit ] Look up millinery in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. All Sewn Up: Millinery, Dressmaking, Clothing and Costume 18th Century millinery Popular Science , November 1941, "Pulling Hats Out Of Rabbits" article on modern mass production hat making Individuality in millinery , a 1923 book on hat-making from The Metropolitan Museum of Art Libraries (fully available online as PDF) Millinery guide (UK) v t e Decorative arts and handicraft History Textile Banner-making Crocheting Cross-stitch Embroidery Felting Friendship bracelet Knitting Lace-making Lucet Macrame Millinery Needlepoint Needlework Patchwork Quilting Ribbon embroidery Carpet Rug hooking Rug making Sewing Shoemaking Spinning String art Tapestry Tatting Tie-dye Weaving Paper Altered book Bookbinding Calligraphy Cardmaking Cast paper Collage Decoupage Papier collé Photomontage Decal Iris folding Kamikiri Origami Kirigami Moneygami Embossing Marbling Papercraft Papercutting Chinese Jewish Slavic Papermaking Paper toys Papier-mâché Pop-up book Quilling Scrapbooking Stamping Wallpaper Wood Bentwood Cabinetry Carpentry Chip carving Ébéniste Fretwork Intarsia Marquetry Wood burning Wood carving Woodturning Ceramic Azulejo Bone china Earthenware Porcelain Pottery Stoneware Terracotta Tile Glass Cameo glass Chip work Enamelled glass Glass etching Glassware Mirror Stained glass Metal Andiron Bronze and brass Chemical milling Damascening Enamel Engraving Etching Goldsmith Ironwork Jewellery Silversmith Other Assemblage Balloon modelling Beadwork Bone carving Dala horse Doll making Dollhouse Egg decorating Engraved gems Faux painting Featherwork Kāhili Grotesque Gargoyle Hardstone carving Inro Lath art Lapidary Leatherworking Miniatures Mosaic Glass Micromosaic Netsuke Ornament Pargeting Pietra dura Private press Oshibana, pressed flower craft Scrimshaw Straw marquetry Taxidermy Vase Wall decal Regional or Historical Mexico Painting in Hälsingland Qing handicrafts Victorian Authority control databases National United States Israel Other NARA Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hatmaking&oldid=1328568973 " Categories : Hatmaking Hats Fashion occupations Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from January 2022 Articles needing additional references from June 2025 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2025