https://www.motortrend.com/news/gm-introduces-apple-music-app-chevrolet-cadillac

Giving Back, Sort of: GM Killed Apple CarPlay in Its Vehicles but Is Now Bringing Native Apple Music Integration Giving Back, Sort of: GM Killed Apple CarPlay but Is Now Bringing Native Apple Music Integration The good news for Apple fans is that Apple Music will be available natively on “select” 2025 and newer Cadillac and Chevrolet vehicles. Justin Banner Writer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 16, 2025 See All 12 Photos 12 Native app functionality is a huge necessity in modern vehicles. While GM took away Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity from Chevrolet , Cadillac, and other brands under its umbrella, one Apple app will return. Starting now, GM will update select 2025 Cadillac and Chevy vehicles to connect directly to Apple Music. This new software update will also let Cadillac owners take advantage of the Spatial Audio with Dolby Atmos library in the app for a more immersive listening experience. Best of all, audio streaming won’t cost users a dime with OnStar Basics for all 2025 and newer GM vehicles. The cost of the service is built into the vehicles’ purchase price, but this will only last for eight years. GM didn’t mention what it will cost after that period or for owners of older vehicles that want the service. See All 12 Photos 12 Indeed, for “select” 2025 and 2026 Chevrolet and Cadillac vehicles, GM will perform an OTA infotainment-system update to add native Apple Music. It will be a built-in app and connect through OnStar’s connectivity , but being integrated with GM’s user interface will allow people to stream from the moment they enter their vehicle and to also use the voice assistant for hands-free control. Buick and GMC models are scheduled to be added later. As for Cadillac’s addition of Spatial Audio by Dolby Atmos, it’s meant to recreate a soundstage experience that more accurately pinpoints instruments’ locations within recordings. This is thanks in part to the premium audio systems found in Cadillacs like the Vistiq and its 23-speaker AKG audio system. Gallery of GM vehicle interiors showing Apple Music, maybe a few that highlight the AKG audio system in the Vistiq See All 12 Photos 12 If you’re already an Apple Music subscriber, all you need to do is sign in to your existing profile, as the app should appear automatically. For those who aren’t subscribers, you maysign up in your vehicle to enjoy a service that was once only available if you had Apple CarPlay. Even though GM ended that integration , the company has stated it will also bring other Apple apps like Digital Key with Apple Wallet in the near future. GM Vehicles with Apple Music App Cadillac 2025, 2026 CT5 2025 Escalade IQ 2026 Vistiq (Spatial Audio with Dolby Atmos) Chevrolet 2025, 2026 Blazer EV 2025, 2026 Equinox EV 2025, 2026 Silverado EV 2026 Corvette 2026 Suburban 2026 Tahoe 2027 Bolt EV Justin Banner Having experience in many forms of the automotive industry, Justin Banner has done more than just write about cars. For more than 15 years, he's had experience working as an automotive service technician—including a stint as a Virginia State Inspector—service advisor, parts sales, and aftermarket parts technical advisor (a fancy way of saying he helped you on the phone when you had trouble fitting your brakes over your aftermarket wheels and the like). 

Prior to his tenure as a full-time editor, Justin worked as a freelance writer and photographer for various publications and as an automotive content creator on YouTube. He’s also covered multiple forms of motorsports ranging from Formula Drift, drag racing, and time attack, to NASCAR, short course off-roading, and open desert racing. He's best known for breaking down complex technical concepts so a layperson can more easily understand why technologies, repairs, and parts should matter to them. At MotorTrend, Justin is part of the news team covering breaking news and topics while also working as a judge for MotorTrend Of the Year events and other major comparison tests. Read More Share You May Also Like