https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101824/2011-honda-crv-drl-and-high-beam-not-working-after-bulb-replacement

2011 Honda CRV DRL and High Beam not working after bulb replacement Ask Question Asked 3 days ago Modified 3 days ago Viewed 18 times 0 I have a 2011 Honda CRV and my dad mentioned the passenger side headlight was out and I figured that’s what  the DRL warning light was on my dash. So I proceeded to get a new bulb. I installed the new bulb and the DRL light went out but my DRL and the High beams which I am aware use the same filament are still not working. But the low beam turns on. What is wrong and what do I need to do to fix this problem I work for door
Dash and need my high beams to work as I go out into the middle of nowhere to deliver a lot of the time. honda headlight cr-v daytime-running-lights Share Improve this question Follow asked Dec 26 at 16:23 Alyssa Howe 1 New contributor Alyssa Howe is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct . 1 Welcome to Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair! Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 – Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 ♦ 2025-12-26 17:30:29 +00:00 Commented Dec 26 at 17:30 Add a comment | 0 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions honda headlight cr-v daytime-running-lights See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 2 Low beam headlights out, High beam working 1 Right side highbeam not working on on Mk2 Golf GTI - not fuse or bulb 7 Low beam not working in headlight 3 2005 Honda Accord coupe low beam not working 2 low beam does not work, daytime running and high beam do 1 One headlight doesn't work (high beams on both do) 1984 Mitsubishi Colt 2 H4 headlight bulb failure mode 0 Left DRL not working - High Beam Is (Honda Integra Type-S) 1 Honda Jazz 2007 - One headlight not working when dipped. Same bulb for full beam is OK, other light for dipped is OK 1 2012 Honda CRV headlight issue Hot Network Questions Why do condensation droplets on my window show a size gradient? Two different interpretations of rolling a dice until getting a 6 conditioned on the fact that we didn't see a 5 Is the 2013 "photo" of a hydrogen atom with an electron orbiting real? Introducing younger kids to the navigation of traffic alone Irreducibility of fibres of dominant morphism with equidimensional fibres Self Connection in CDG from Terminal 1 to Terminal 2B with less than 3 hours What could be the reason for error 500 after adding IP networks to Require Not IP? Is it dangerous if there is a mains fault on a potable water pipe? Do Orlando hotel prices spike at the last minute? Why is there a 'Temperature' and a 'Feels like (Temperature)' in weather apps? What's the difference between the two? FunctionDomain of Hold Piecewise function When and how was I supposed to do customs when traveling from Frankfurt to Beijing to Zhengzhou? In what way is Jesus' burden light? Knights and knaves on graphs Is the Canonical Decomposition of Functions Canonical? Can you please point to any references to bija mantras in any major shastras? What was the point of the PDP-1's indirect addressing? McNemar test: I do not understand why (or how, or when?) it works Why are there sparks when I put a multimeter to an apparently unused light switch? Did Jn 3:16 borrow the expression : 'Only Begotten Son' from Gen 22:1-2? How do I set the interpolation type of a specific action slots and not active object to constant with bpy? Technological feasibility of transporting Martian water to Earth Does it make sense to average standard errors like this? South African with expired TIE need to travel for bereavement more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.