https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69638473/2026-subaru-trailseeker-ev-pricing

View Photos Subaru Subaru just announced pricing for the 2026 Trailseeker , its new mid-size electric SUV, which starts at $41,445. The Trailseeker will be offered in three trims that brand loyalists should be familiar with: Premium, Limited, and Touring. All three of the Trailseeker's trims will feature a 375-hp dual-motor electric powertrain, all-wheel drive, and a range of around 280 miles, according to Subaru. Earlier this year, Subaru announced that the 2026 Trailseeker mid-size electric SUV will be joining the Solterra as the brand's sophomore attempt at expanding its EV presence. It's based on its compact sibling, but the Trailseeker is targeting eco-conscious families that need a bit more space for their silent soft-road adventures. For its inaugural model year, the Trailseeker will be offered in a trim hierarchy that should be familiar to the Subaru faithful. It includes Premium, Limited, and Touring models, with a starting price of $41,445. Regardless of trim, all Trailseekers come with a 375-hp dual-motor electric powertrain, all-wheel drive, and a manufacturer-estimated range of around 280 miles. For Sale Near You See all results for 2026 Subaru Trailseeker for sale near ? Subaru The $41,445 Trailseeker Premium is the lineup's jumping-off point and comes reasonably well equipped. Standard features include a 14.0-inch infotainment touchscreen with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, heated front seats, a power rear liftgate, dual wireless smartphone chargers, faux-leather upholstery, 18-inch aluminum wheels, and a host of safety and driver-assistance features that you'd expect from Subaru. Step up a trim level, and the Trailseeker Limited will set you back $45,455. For the $4010 upcharge, the mid-tier model adds an upgraded Harman/Kardon sound system, a panoramic rearview mirror, heated rear seating, a digital key, a heated and leather-wrapped steering wheel, larger 20-inch wheels, and a pair of 120-volt outlets mounted in the rear cargo area to plug in a couple of accessories while off the grid. The top-dog Trailseeker Touring will cost $48,005 and ratchets up the luxury even further. In addition to the features included in the lesser trims, the Touring sports a gloss-black hood decal, a panoramic glass roof with a motorized shade, and ventilated front seats. The driver and passenger seats are also fitted with "radiant leg warmers," whatever that means. For an extra $795, customers can order Touring-specific two-tone exterior paint paired with blue and black leather upholstery. Subaru says that the Trailseeker should be on showroom floors at the beginning of 2026. Electric SUV News Subaru Trailseeker Debuts As the Brand's Second EV View Photos of the 2026 Subaru Trailseeker New Toyota bZ Woodland Is an Outdoorsy EV SUV ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Austin Parsons Associate Editor Austin's car fixation began at a young age and at 1:64 scale. Eventually, Hot Wheels weren't cutting it anymore, so he developed an obsession with his father's full-sized 1965 Ford Mustang instead. Desperate to break into the automotive industry, he bartered his way into a job at a local BMW dealership by promising to stop hurling nerdy technical facts at the salesmen who came into the neighboring coffee shop where he worked. 

That was also around the time when he started writing automotive reviews, news articles, and technical guides for a number of local and international publications. Now at Car and Driver, Austin brings more than 10 years of experience in the automotive industry and an all-so-common love-hate relationship with German engineering to the table.