https://www.motortrend.com/news/airstream-stetson-6666-travel-trailer-rv-first-look

Airstream's New Stetson Trailer Goes Full Cowboy Cosplay—Take a Look Inside Airstream's New Stetson Trailer Goes Full Cowboy Cosplay—Take a Look Inside Airstream’s Stetson 6666 edition turns the classic aluminum trailer into a full Western showcase, especially inside. Aaron Gold Writer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 04, 2025 See All 12 Photos 12 The shape of the Airstream camping trailer may be iconic, but it can be difficult to differentiate between them—after all, if you’ve seen one aluminum Twinkie, you’ve seen ‘em all, right? Maybe not. Airstream has been dipping a corporate toe into the world of special editions with the intriguing Frank Lloyd Wright edition and the, er, not quite as intriguing Pottery Barn edition . Well, hold your horses, because Airstream’s newest special edition is by far the wildest, not to mention the rootint-tootin-est. Meet the Airstream Stetson 6666, an ode to over-the-top western theming that you can sleep in. As the name implies, Airstream has partnered with Stetson and the 6666 (“Four Sixes”) Ranch in Texas. The former is, of course, known for its western wear; the latter, an ongoing concern since 1870, for its cattle and quarter horses as well as its recent purchase by Yellowstone co-creator Taylor Sheridan. Outside, the 27-foot Airstream Stetson 6666 is distinguished by a red beltline stripe and a cowboy-themed mural on the shades that shield the front windows. Open the outer door and you’ll see a Stetson-hat-themed screen door; roll out the awnings and you’ll find wild Southwest-theme red and orange stripes. Consider these your friendly warning shots before the full-on stampede of cowboy culture that awaits you inside. See All 12 Photos 12 What, we wonder, will strike your senses first when you step inside the Stetson 6666 Airstream? Will it be the deep tobacco brown leather on the overstuffed couches? The black stained oak of the dining room table? The rough woven drapes? The leather wrapping on every handle of every drawer? No—it’s got to be the gigantic hammered-copper kitchen sink—because last time we checked, real cowboys love nothing better than a copper sink. Still, it is nearly overshadowed, literally and figuratively, by the floor-to-ceiling cowboy mural set next to the stove. Can’t get enough of that copper sink? Then ride on over to the privy, where you’ll find yet another copper basin fed, like the galley sink, by those antiquey sort of faucets that look like a cross between an old-west pump and a Victorian streetlight. The murals here are cowboy-free, showing only a monochrome cloudy sky, so you can have your privacy when you go to see a man about a horse. We were a bit surprised that there was no quarter-moon carved into the door, but we were relieved to find a flush toilet rather than a latrine. Oh, and did we mention the hat rack? Because of course there’s a hat rack, big enough to hold three ten-gallon Stetsons, pardner. See All 12 Photos 12 Tech-savvy cowpokes will be pleased to find the Airstream Stetson 6666 packs a 2,000-watt inverter and a 300-watt solar panel to help charge the 2.4-kWh lithium-ion house battery. The trailer’s GVWR is 7,600 pounds, so you’ll need a fairly stout truck to tow it. (A Ford King Ranch model seems perfect to us!) Tragically, the Airstream is only set up for bumper towing, with no hardware to hitch it to a team of draft horses. Airstream will open up orders right around the time you read this, with pricing starting at $169,900. Given the cost, regular cowpokes like us may have to rob a stagecoach, crack a safe, or win a high-stakes game of five-card draw in a dusty saloon to make the down payment. Aaron Gold After a two-decade career as a freelance writer, Aaron Gold joined MotorTrend’s sister publication Automobile in 2018 before moving to the MT staff in 2021. Aaron is a native New Yorker who now lives in Los Angeles with his spouse, too many pets, and a cantankerous 1983 GMC Suburban. Read More Share You May Also Like MotorTrend Recommended Stories Load More