https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Introduction Readers How to report a problem with an article, or find out more information. Article subjects Problems with articles about you, your company, or somebody you represent. Licensing How to copy Wikipedia's information, donate your own, or report unlicensed use of your information. Donors Find out about the process, how to donate, and information about how your money is spent. Press and partnerships If you're a member of the press looking to contact Wikipedia, or have a business proposal for us. Back to main page Thank you for your interest in contacting Wikipedia. Before proceeding, some important disclaimers: Wikipedia has no central editorial board. Contributions are made by a large number of volunteers at their own discretion. Edits are neither the responsibility of the Wikimedia Foundation (the organisation that hosts the site) nor of its staff. Generally, the agent who responds to an email request will not make edits on your behalf. Disagreements with content will not be resolved via email. Use the Edit Request Wizard to propose specific changes to an article. Although Wikipedia was co-founded by Jimmy Wales , he is not personally responsible for our content. If you have questions about the concept of Wikipedia rather than a specific problem, the About Wikipedia page may help. If you want to ask other users for help with editing or using Wikipedia, stop by the Teahouse , Wikipedia's live help channel , or the help desk to ask someone for assistance. If you disagree with an article's content, or are involved in a content dispute, see Dispute resolution . The links on the left should direct you to how to contact us or resolve problems. If you cannot find your issue listed there, you can email helpful, experienced volunteers at info-en wikimedia.org . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Contact_us&oldid=1329263317 " Categories : Wikipedia tutorials Wikipedia quick introductions