https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69733517/2026-mercedes-benz-cla-drive-review

VIEW GALLERY Mercedes-Benz AG – Communications &amp; Marketing Mercedes-Benz’s new CLA EV is out now, with a starting sticker of $48,500. EPA range is a whopping 374 miles; other sources are citing even longer range. The CLA may weigh over 4,500 pounds, but it feels surprisingly light on its feet. The first time I got behind the wheel of the new Mercedes-Benz CLA was on that twisty road from Marin to Stinson Beach in Northern California, just past the turnoff to Muir Woods, not far from Sonoma race track. I thought the car, being an EV with a fairly largish 85-kWh battery and full luxury accoutrement, would feel heavy. Maybe the steering would be overboosted like some AMGs, maybe the antiroll bars would be in a wrestling match with the laws of physics. The Buzz on EVs 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLC 400 4MATIC Digs the Dunes Maybe I shouldn’t have thought ahead too much, because the new all-electric CLA actually felt light and nimble. It was fun to slot it through the 127 corners of the route I had politely asked my co-driver if I could drive, just to be sure I had some seat time in the best curves of the day. The CLA rides on Mercedes new MMA architecture, which is in no way affiliated with Mixed Martial Arts of the same acronym. You won’t need muscle to make this car behave. Just finesse. MMA in this case stands for Mercedes Modular Architecture. MMA will offer rear-wheel-drive EVs, all-wheel-drive EVs, and, next year, a range of PHEVs in sedan and SUV form. VIEW GALLERY Mercedes-Benz AG – Communications &amp; Marketing It handles curves well. The car I drove was a 2026 CLA 250+ with EQ Technology, Mercedes’ long name for an EV. It’s 185.9 inches long on a 109.8-inch wheelbase. Curb weight is 4,553 pounds, which sounds big and heavy but felt, as I said, a lot lighter. It’s 176 pounds lighter than the all-wheel-drive 350 4MATIC with EQ Technology and, at $48,500, it was $2,550 less than the AWD 350 4MATIC’s sticker price of $51,050. The rear electric motor even incorporates a unique two-speed automatic transmission that usually upshifts at 68 mph for maximum efficiency. This is one efficient package. Total output of the rear electric motor is 268 hp and 247 lb-ft of torque, which doesn’t sound like enough to toss around 4,553 pounds of CLA, but the gearing in the transmission—11:1 followed by 5:1—combined with this car’s Goldilocks chassis tuning and regenerative braking that can be maxed out to one-pedal drive mode, really holds that curb weight in line. And I never noticed that two-speed axle shifting during a day-long drive. VIEW GALLERY Mercedes-Benz AG – Communications &amp; Marketing Interior can be stark, here, or comfy. Combined with a cD of just 0.21, batteries that feature anodes that mix silicon oxide with graphite to increase gravimetric energy density by up to 20%, and the use of a heat pump for heating and air conditioning, the maximum EPA range comes in at 374 miles. The guys at Edmunds got 434 miles on their “real world” test loop. The European WLTP test officially returned 492 miles of range. All from an 85-kWh battery. This is one efficient package. Its 800-volt electric architecture means it can recharge at 320 kW, which can give you up to 202 miles of range in as little as 10 minutes, Mercedes says. Inside, it offers most of the luxury you expect in a Mercedes. You can get yours with a stark graphite interior trim or a more traditional wood and leather lining. You may even like the newest Mercedes-Benz Operating System controlling infotainment, ADAS, comfort and charging. It still keeps thinking you’re asking it a question even when you haven’t said, “Hey Mercedes,” but once you start watching your word choices, it gets manageable. What does it compete with? Most EVs in this or any class are SUVs, but for sedans, you have the Tesla Model 3 for $38,630 to $56,630, with a max range of 321 miles; or the Polestar 3 for $67,500 with 350 miles stated range. And if you still don’t like electric cars, this CLA will come out later in 2026 with a plug-in hybrid drivetrain. It’s a nice range of options for what is a relatively affordable entry into luxury Mercedes ownership. And it’s fun to drive. Mark Vaughn Mark Vaughn grew up in a Ford family and spent many hours holding a trouble light over a straight-six miraculously fed by a single-barrel carburetor while his father cursed the Blue Oval, all its products and everyone who ever worked there. This was his introduction to objective automotive criticism. He started writing for City News Service in Los Angeles, then moved to Europe and became editor of a car magazine called, creatively, Auto. He decided Auto should cover Formula 1, sports prototypes and touring cars—no one stopped him! From there he interviewed with Autoweek at the 1989 Frankfurt motor show and has been with us ever since.