https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultra-low-emission_vehicle

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia You can help expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Japanese . (October 2011) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Japanese article. Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate , is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 1,446 articles in the main category , and specifying |topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Japanese Wikipedia article at [[:ja:低公害車]]; see its history for attribution. You may also add the template {{Translated|ja|低公害車}} to the talk page . For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation . The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "Ultra-low-emission vehicle" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( November 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) An ultra-low-emission vehicle ( ULEV ) is a motor vehicle that emits extremely low levels of motor vehicle emissions compared to other vehicles. In some jurisdictions it is defined in law; low and ultra low emission vehicles may be given tax or other advantages, [ 1 ] while high emission vehicles may suffer restrictions or additional taxation. [ 2 ] In California [ edit ] Fuel cell vehicle California defines a ULEV as a vehicle that has been verified by the California Air Resources Board (CARB), United States to emit 50% less polluting emissions than the average for new cars released in that model year. 
Under LEV II regulations, the Tier I and TLEV classifications were removed for 2004. The ULEV is one of a number of designations given by the CARB to signify the level of emissions that car-buyers can expect their new vehicle to produce and forms part of a whole range of designations, listed here in order of decreasing emissions: TLEV (transitional low-emission vehicle) The least stringent emissions standard in California. California phased-out TLEVs in 2004. LEV (low-emission vehicle) The minimum standard for all new cars sold in California as of 2004. ULEV (ultra-low-emission vehicle) SULEV (super-ultra-low-emission vehicle) SULEV emissions are 90% cleaner than the average new model year car. PZEV (partial-zero-emission vehicle) A PZEV meets SULEV tailpipe emission standards, but has no evaporative emissions (i.e., no unburned fuel leaves the fuel system). A PZEV has a 15-year / 150,000-mile warranty on its emission control components. AT PZEV (advanced technology partial-zero-emission vehicle) An AT PZEV meets the PZEV requirements but also meets some of the necessary conditions of a ZEV. AT PZEV include dedicated compressed natural gas vehicles and hybrid vehicles with engine emissions that meet PZEV standards. ZEV (zero-emissions vehicle) A ZEV has no tailpipe emissions. These include battery electric vehicles and hydrogen vehicles ( fuel cell vehicles ). See also [ edit ] Low-emission vehicle United States emission standards External links [ edit ] ^ Cerfication of low emission vehicles (Japanese) ^ Ultra Low Emission tax classification (Japanese) California Air Resources Board DriveClean.ca.gov Glossary of Terms Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ultra-low-emission_vehicle&oldid=1119960544 " Category : Vehicle emission controls Hidden categories: Articles needing translation from Japanese Wikipedia Articles with topics of unclear notability from November 2022 All articles with topics of unclear notability