https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-road_tire#All-terrain

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Category of vehicle tire with deep tread Knobby tire on a 2008 Motovert pit bike Different treads on knobby mountain bike tires Off-road tires (Off-road tyre) are a category of vehicle tires that use deep tread to provide more traction on unpaved surfaces such as loose dirt, mud, sand, or gravel. [ 1 ] Compared to ice or snow tires, they lack studs but contain deeper and wider grooves meant to help the tread sink into mud or gravel surfaces. Design [ edit ] Off-road tires are typically radials [ 2 ] with thick, deep tread. On dirt surfaces, the exposed edges of the tread dig into soft ground to give more traction than rolling friction alone, analogous to the traction provided by cleated shoes . These off-road tires provide their maximum grip on loose surfaces, but on paved surfaces the smaller contact patch affords less traction as compared to street tires. Tires with less aggressive knobs (smaller knobs and the shape of the tread cross-section closer to that of street tires) can provide a compromise, giving less grip off-road, but a grip closer to that of street tires on paved surfaces. Such tires are useful for enduro and dual-sport motorcycles and other vehicles designed to be used both off-road and on pavement. Some off-road tires are designed to be used with low inflation pressure on difficult terrain, reducing their rigidity and allowing the tread to better conform to the terrain. [ 3 ] Such a design may allow for use on a wider range of surfaces, but tubeless tires running under rated pressure run the risk of breaking their bead. A beadlock can be used to prevent this. Use on bicycles, motorcycles, and quads [ edit ] Off-road cycle tires, colloquially called knobbies , [ 4 ] may be found on motocross and enduro motorcycles, ATVs , and mountain bikes . [ 1 ] Tires for single-track vehicles and ATVs have a curved profile such that some tread only contacts the ground during turning. Depending on the model of tire, an off-road capable tire may or may not be approved by the DOT . [ 5 ] In the United States, such a tire approved for street use will be marked with a DOT code (U.S.), which identifies the tire as street legal . Tires which are not approved for street use will typically be labeled "Motocross Use Only" or "Not for Highway Use". Street legal, knobby tires are generally not suitable for long distances on roads or paved surfaces because of poor NVH properties and excessive wear on the soft rubber. Example of a mild all-terrain tire All-terrain [ edit ] Example of an all-terrain tire Depending on the design, an off-road tire may be designated "all terrain" ("All-around"), meaning it is intended for use both on- and off-road. Such tires attempt to compromise between grip on loose terrain and safety or comfort on paved roads. Some tires, such as the bar grip used on United States military vehicles in World War II, accomplish this by separating the tire into distinct on-road and off-road tread zones. Modern all-terrain tires typically employ hybrid tread patterns and tougher compound to increase the wear life under mixed-surface conditions. [ 6 ] Features of all-terrain tires [ edit ] All-terrain tires are known for their ability to handle different terrains. They come with grooves and channels that distribute the load evenly, improving the traction. This makes all-terrain tires ideal for off-road driving, snow and ice, sand, and other soft surfaces. They are also known for their long lasting performance. Some of the key features of all-terrain tires (ATTs). [ 7 ] Largest Tread Depth Aggressive Multi-Pitch Pattern Cushioning Layer Large Void Area Tread Design Snow & Ice Traction Mud-terrain [ edit ] Design for mudding , rock crawling or desert racing (especially for bulldust or baja silt ). Most mud-terrain tyres are road legal (DOT approved), but maybe prevented from being fitted to modern cars due to laws on minimum tyre speed rating. Most modern cars, SUV and pickup trucks require minimum tyre speed rating of "S" (180kph), but the vast majority of mud-terrain tyres max out at a tyre speed rating of "Q" (160kph). [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Mud-terrain tyres, may improve traction and have reduced braking distances on dirt roads where the rocks slightly are too big to fit into the grooves and channels of an all-terrain tyre. Traditionally mud-terrain tyres are uncomfortable, loud, dangerous and inefficient (high fuel use and tyre wear) to use on paved roads/asphalt highways. Modern mud-terrain tyres have similar characteristics to high quality aggressive (high void) all-terrain tyres. [ 11 ] Rugged Terrain Tyre [ edit ] The RT tyres built for drivers who need reliable traction off-road, without sacrificing comfort on the road. It sits between an all-terrain and a mud-terrain, offering a strong mix of durability, grip, and everyday usability. [ 12 ] See also [ edit ] Bicycle tire Motorcycle tire Paddle tire - For use in sand and mud Off-road motorcycles Off-road vehicles Off-roading Bar grip Cyclo-cross bicycle Mountain bike Rolligon All-rounder (cycling) References [ edit ] ^ a b Wade Shaddy. "Knobby Vs. Street Bicycle Tires" . AZCentral.com . Retrieved 2015-03-28 . ^ "Tire Construction Technology: Bias and Radial" . FourWheeler.com. February 2011 . Retrieved 2016-11-17 . ^ "Off Road Facts" . Dunlop Tires . Retrieved 2016-11-17 . ^ "Are Knobbies the Best Adventure Motorcycle Tires for Noobs?" . AdvRider.com. 10 August 2016 . Retrieved 2016-11-17 . ^ Andrew Tuttle. "Dirt Bike Tire Buying Guide" . Motorsport.com . Retrieved 2016-11-17 . ^ "Highway All-Season or On-/Off-Road All-Terrain - Testing the Differences When Driving on Paved Roads" . TireRack.com. 2015-10-16 . Retrieved 2016-12-01 . ^ Hickman, Mike (2021-10-26). "What are All Terrain Tires | All-Terrain vs All-Season Tires" . Retrieved 2022-03-19 . ^ "Speed Rating" . www.tyrereview.com.au . Retrieved 2024-10-02 . ^ "Buy Tyres Online At Cheap Prices | Car Tyres Online | Tyresales" . www.tyresales.com.au . Retrieved 2024-10-02 . ^ "TyreVehicle Standards Information - VSI.09 | Rev 5" (PDF) . ^ Ronny Dahl (2024-08-03). 4x4 TYRES ALL TERRAIN VS MUD TERRAIN . Retrieved 2024-10-02 – via YouTube. ^ "Mutant RT-Trail Tyres" . Predator Tyre Australia . Predator Tyre Australia . Retrieved 16 July 2025 . v t e Tires Types Tubeless tire Radial tire Low rolling resistance tire Run-flat tire Michelin PAX System Airless tire Tweel Rain tyre Snow tire All-terrain tire Bar grip Knobby tire Large tire Mud-terrain tire Paddle tire Orange oil tires Whitewall tire Aircraft tire Tundra tire Bicycle tire Tubular tire Lego tire Motorcycle tyre Tractor tire Racing slick Formula One tyres Spare tire Continental tire Components Bead Beadlock Tread Siping (rubber) Valve stem Dunlop valve Presta valve Schrader valve Attributes Camber thrust Circle of forces Cold inflation pressure Contact patch Cornering force Ground pressure Pacejka's Magic Formula Pneumatic trail Relaxation length Rolling resistance Self aligning torque Slip angle Steering ratio Tire balance Tire load sensitivity Tire uniformity Lateral Force Variation Radial Force Variation Traction (engineering) Treadwear rating Behaviors Aquaplaning Groove wander Slip (vehicle dynamics) Tramlining Maintenance Tire maintenance Tire rotation Bicycle pump Central Tire Inflation System Tire mousse Tire-pressure monitoring system Tire-pressure gauge Direct TPMS Bead breaker Tire changer Tire manipulator Tire iron Life cycle Tire manufacturing List of tire companies Retread Waste tires Tire recycling Tire fire Blowout Flat tire Ozone cracking Organizations European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation Tire Society Tire Science and Technology Identification Tire code Plus sizing Tire label Uniform Tire Quality Grading (UTQG) Outline of tires Category v t e Powertrain Part of the Automobile series Automotive engine Diesel engine Electric Fuel cell Hybrid ( Plug-in hybrid ) Internal combustion engine Petrol engine Steam engine Transmission Automatic transmission Chain drive Direct-drive Clutch Constant-velocity joint Continuously variable transmission Coupling Differential Direct-shift gearbox Drive shaft Dual-clutch transmission Drive wheel Automated manual transmission Electrorheological clutch Epicyclic gearing Fluid coupling Friction drive Gearshift Giubo Hotchkiss drive Limited-slip differential Locking differential Manual transmission Manumatic Parking pawl Park-by-wire Preselector gearbox Semi-automatic transmission Shift-by-wire Torque converter Transaxle Transfer box Transmission control unit Universal joint Wheels and tires Wheel hub assembly Wheel Rim Alloy wheel Hubcap Tire Off-road Racing slick Radial Rain Run-flat Snow Spare Tubeless Hybrid Electric motor Hybrid vehicle drivetrain Electric generator Alternator Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Off-road_tire&oldid=1300749397 " Categories : Tires Motorcycle tires and wheels Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata