https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Strut

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is rated Start-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to the following WikiProjects : Civil engineering Engineering portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Civil engineering , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Civil engineering on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Civil engineering Wikipedia:WikiProject Civil engineering Template:WikiProject Civil engineering Civil engineering ??? This article has not yet received a rating on the project's importance scale . Technology Technology portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Technology , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of technology on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Technology Wikipedia:WikiProject Technology Template:WikiProject Technology Technology It is requested that one or more mechanical diagrams illustrating {{{1}}} be included in this article to improve its quality . Specific illustrations, plots, or diagrams can be requested at the Graphics Lab . For more information, refer to discussion on this page and/or the listing at Wikipedia:Requested images . Does that part near the end, about mounting points near the middle, make sense to anybody? I left it in though I'm not sure. Gzuckier 18:18, 18 May 2005 (UTC) [ reply ] Makes sense to me, but then I think I might have written it...  -- SFoskett 22:15, May 18, 2005 (UTC) Hi none of this makes sense —The preceding unsigned comment was added by 24.173.141.114 ( talk ) 22:56, 5 December 2006 (UTC) . [ reply ] Dudes, there realy needs to be some sort of picture here... are struts those long slabs of metal used for suspension that look like rusty 2 x 4's of different length???? This sentence makes very little sense:
"Applications of struts are used in cars called struts in aircraft, these structural members are frequently loaded in tension, but may vary between tension and compression as the aircraft maneuvers." It needs to be clarified or deleted.  It is both grammatically poor, and fails to adequately convey its concepts. Rhodescus ( talk ) 07:25, 16 July 2008 (UTC) [ reply ] I agree.   But if it is to be clarified, the job needs to be done by someone who reckons they know just what it intends to mean: I don't.  So for now I have left it.   But if it hasn't been clarified in a couple of weeks, I suggest someone - maybe you - removes it.   Or - if you have a sufficient understanding of the matter - at least reword it so that it says something useful.    Regards Charles01 ( talk ) 08:37, 16 July 2008 (UTC) [ reply ] Automotive pillars/posts image [ edit ] Does anyone else think the picture of automotive struts makes no sense alongside the paragraph? The text exclusively refers to the struts that are part of the shock absorbing package that attach to the wheels, but the picture showcases the parts of the body that hold the roof above the passengers. Maybe those are also technically struts, but it doesn't help demonstrate the paragraph text at all, to me. Brady ( talk ) 07:27, 22 July 2015 (UTC) [ reply ] Agreed.  I have removed it -- 64.118.218.140 ( talk ) 18:44, 30 August 2016 (UTC) [ reply ] Edits Made On 2/13/2020 [ edit ] Hello all, I made a numerous amount of edits on the automotive portion of this page. I wanted to include the history of why struts became to be. I felt the history helps the reader understand progressively more information about the function of the struts that was outlined previously in the heading. I wanted to also include a portion on how some vehicles have the option of not using struts which connects to the progression of the past history. I also wanted to cater some information to the importance on maintaining the struts and a simple troubleshooting method. I would love for people to expand more on my edits and make this page increasingly help the reader understand the concept even more. I feel like my edits will help the audience understand more about automotive struts overall. Sincerely, ChipperJonesFan37 ( talk ) 01:15, 14 February 2020 (UTC) [ reply ] Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Strut&oldid=1205485109 " Categories : Start-Class Civil engineering articles Unknown-importance Civil engineering articles WikiProject Civil engineering articles Start-Class Technology articles WikiProject Technology articles Wikipedia requested mechanical diagrams Hidden categories: All Wikipedia requested diagram images Talk pages with comments before the first section