https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaft-driven_bicycle

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of bicycle which uses a drive shaft to transmit power instead of a chain Dynamic Runabout 7 shaft-driven bicycle Drive-shaft housing A shaft-driven bicycle is a bicycle that uses a drive shaft instead of a chain to transmit power from the pedals to the wheel . Shaft drives were introduced in the 1880s, but were mostly supplanted by chain-driven bicycles due to the gear ranges possible with sprockets and derailleurs . Around the 2000s, due to advancements in internal gear technology, a small number of modern shaft-driven bicycles have been introduced. Shaft-driven bikes have a large bevel gear where a conventional bike would have its chain ring . This meshes with another bevel gear mounted on the drive shaft. The use of bevel gears allows the axis of the drive torque from the pedals to be turned through 90 degrees. The drive shaft then has another bevel gear near the rear wheel hub which meshes with a bevel gear on the hub where the rear sprocket would be on a conventional bike, and canceling out the first drive torque change of axis. The 90-degree change of the drive plane that occurs at the bottom bracket and again at the rear hub uses bevel gears for the most efficient performance, though other mechanisms could be used, e.g. hobson's joints , worm gears or crossed helical gears . The drive shaft is often mated to a hub gear which is an internal gear system housed inside the rear hub. Manufacturers of internal hubs suitable for use with shaft drive systems include NuVinci , Rohloff , Shimano , SRAM , and Sturmey-Archer . History [ edit ] 1880 lithography of a drive shaft The Quadrant, an antique shaft-driven bicycle The first shaft drives for cycles appear to have been invented independently in the United States and Britain. In 1880, the Orbicycle (which was actually a tricycle) by Thomas Moore powered by a shaft drive was sold in London, England. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] A. Fearnhead, of 354 Caledonian Road, North London, developed one in 1890 and received a patent in October 1891. [ citation needed ] His prototype shaft was enclosed within a tube running along the top of the chainstay; later models were enclosed within the actual chainstay. [ 3 ] In the United States, Walter Stillman filed for a patent on a shaft-driven bicycle on Dec. 10, 1890, which was granted on July 21, 1891. [ 4 ] The shaft drive was not well accepted in Britain, so in 1894 Fearnhead took it to the United States where Colonel Pope of the Columbia firm bought the exclusive American rights. [ citation needed ] Belatedly, the British makers took it up, with Humber in particular plunging heavily on the deal. [ citation needed ] Victorian cycle engineer Professor Archibald Sharp was against shaft drive. In his 1896 book Bicycles and Tricycles , he wrote "The Fearnhead Gear ... if bevel-wheels could be accurately and cheaply cut by machinery, it is possible that gears of this description might supplant, to a great extent, the chain-drive gear; but the fact that the teeth of the bevel-wheels cannot be accurately milled is a serious obstacle to their practical success". [ 5 ] In the United States, they had been made by the League Cycle Company as early as 1893. [ 6 ] Soon after, the French company Metropole marketed their Acatane. [ 6 ] By 1897 Columbia began aggressively to market the chainless bicycle it had acquired from the League Cycle Company. [ 6 ] Chainless bicycles were moderately popular in 1898 and 1899, although sales were still much smaller than regular bicycles, primarily due to the high cost. They were also somewhat less efficient than regular bicycles: there was roughly an 8 percent loss in the gearing, in part due to limited manufacturing technology at the time. The rear wheel was also more difficult to remove to change flats. Many of these deficiencies have been overcome in the past century. In 1902, The Hill-Climber Bicycle Mfg. Company sold a three-speed shaft-driven bicycle in which the shifting was implemented with three sets of bevel gears. [ 7 ] While a small number of chainless bicycles were available, for the most part, shaft-driven bicycles disappeared from view for most of the 20th century. There is, however, still a niche market for chainless bikes, especially for commuters, and there is a number of manufacturers who offer them either as part of a larger range or as a primary specialization. Notable examples are Biomega in Denmark and Brik in the Netherlands. [ 8 ] Comparison of shaft vs chain [ edit ] Shaft drives operate at a very consistent rate of efficiency and performance, without adjustments or maintenance, though their efficiency has been lower than that of a properly adjusted and lubricated chain, [ 9 ] [ 10 ] possibly because of insufficiently precise machining or alignment of the bevel gears. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Shaft drives are typically more complex to disassemble when repairing flat rear tires, and the manufacturing cost is typically higher. A fundamental issue with bicycle shaft-drive systems is the requirement to transmit the torque of the rider through bevel gears with much smaller radii than typical bicycle sprockets. This requires both high quality gears and heavier frame construction. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Since shaft-drives require gear hubs for shifting, they accrue all the benefits and drawbacks associated with such mechanisms. [ 9 ] Most of the advantages claimed for a shaft drive can be realized by using a fully enclosed chain case. [ 9 ] Some of the other issues addressed by the shaft drive, such as protection for clothing and from ingress of dirt, can be met through the use of chain guards . The reduced need for adjustment in shaft-drive bikes also applies to a similar extent to chain or belt-driven hub-geared bikes. Not all hub gear systems are shaft compatible. Gallery [ edit ] Lloyds Cross Roller Gear in the Coventry Transport Museum Shaft-driven folding bicycle Shaft driven roadsters in the Coventry Transport Museum, UK. Right-hand shift lever Bevel ring gear on the rear wheel of a shaft-drive bicycle See also [ edit ] Chainless bicycle Outline of cycling Velovision - magazine regularly reviews shaft-drive bikes References [ edit ] ^ Hadland, Tony. Bicycle design : an illustrated history . Lessing, Hans-Erhard. Cambridge, Massachusetts. ISBN 0262322218 . OCLC 878078558 . ^ "Prints of Advertisement, Moores Orbi-Cycle Tricycle" . Mary Evans Prints Online Photo Prints . Retrieved 2023-06-29 . ^ Luther H. Porter, Wheels and Wheeling , Wheelman, Boston, 1892; page 162. ^ Walter Stillman, Bicycle, with shaft drive , July 21, 1891. ^ Archibald Sharp (1896). Bicycles and Tricycles . Longmans. p. 461 . ISBN 0-486-42987-3 . Fearnhead. {{ cite book }} : ISBN / Date incompatibility ( help ) ^ a b c Herlihy, David V. (2004). Bicycle, the History . Yale University Press. pp. 286–287 . ^ Tietjen, Alfred (2007). "The Chainless Hill-Climber: A restoration project" . Archived from the original on 2012-02-26 . Retrieved 2009-08-07 . ^ "Drive shaft – Brikbikes" . ^ a b c d Sheldon Brown (2008). "Shaft drive" . Retrieved 2010-03-02 . ^ a b c Wilson, David Gordon; Jim Papadopoulos (2004). Bicycling Science (Third ed.). The MIT Press. pp. 331–333 . ISBN 0-262-73154-1 . ^ Hadland and Lessing (2014). Bicycle Design . MIT Press. p. 144. to work efficiently, the bevel gears had to be made very accurately and aligned precisely External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Shaft-driven bicycles . Gearing Overview (via Wayback Machine) v t e Gears Systems Spur gear systems Worm drive Rack and pinion Epicyclic (planetary) gearing Sun and planet gear Harmonic drive Cycloidal drive Non-circular gear Shapes Spur Bevel Crown Spiral bevel Helical Herringbone Geartooth profiles Involute Cycloid Mechanics Transmission Differential Coupling Train Bicycle gearing Continuously variable transmission Offset Examples Bicycles Cogset Derailleur Hub gear Shaft-driven bicycle Sprocket Horology Wheel train See also Ball screw Leadscrew Jackscrew Belt drive Chain drive Gear manufacturing Freewheel Spur gear corrected tooth v t e Human-powered transport Land Pedal power 29er Bicycle ( outline ) Bicycle trailer BMX bike Boneshaker Cargo bike City bicycle Cold-weather biking Cruiser bicycle Cycle rickshaw Cyclo-cross bicycle Downhill bike Enduro Fatbike Flat bar road bike Folding bicycle Go-kart Glossary of cycling Hybrid bicycle Motorized bicycle Mountain bike Mountain biking 27.5 Downhill Singletrack Party bike Penny-farthing Porteur bicycle Prone bicycle Quadracycle Recumbent bicycle Road bicycle Roadster Safety bicycle Sociable Small-wheel bicycle Tandem bicycle Touring bicycle Track bicycle Trailer bike Tricycle Unicycle Utility bicycle Velocar Velocipede Velomobile Wheelie bike Cold-weather biking ( ice cycle ) Electric motor assist Electric bicycle Pedelec Motorized bicycle Motorized scooter Treadle power Treadle bicycle Other foot power Balance bike Dandy horse Kick scooter Kickbike Kicksled Brakeboard Freeboard Freeskates Longboard Skateboard Hand power Handcar Handcycle Hobcart Invalid carriage Wheelchair Row action Rowing cycle Pushed/pulled Baby transport Baggage cart Bath chair Cart Flatbed trolley Hand truck Pulled rickshaw Shopping cart Shopping caddy Stairclimber Stretcher Toy wagon Wheelbarrow Sled Carried Litter/sedan chair Scoop stretcher Weight shifting Trikke Pogo stick Caster board Snakeboard Gravity Gravity racer Billy cart Street luge Snowboard Toboggan Summer toboggan Gravity biking Water Hand power Canoe Kayak Paddleboarding Rowing (fixed seat) Punt Hand and foot power Rowing (sliding seat) Rowing (sliding rigger) Foot power Hydrocycle Hydrofoil Pedalo Amphibious Amphibious cycle Air Aircraft list Helicopter Ornithopter Non-vehicular transport Foot power Inline skating skates Roller skating skates Running Stair climbing Walking Stair climbing Snow and ice Crampons Ice skates Ski Alpine touring skis Cross-country skis Telemark skis Snowshoes Related topics Animal-powered transport Cycling ( outline ) Bicycle- and human-powered vehicle museums Human power Zero-emissions vehicle Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shaft-driven_bicycle&oldid=1328823533 " Categories : Cycle types Shaft drives Hidden categories: CS1 errors: ISBN date Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2010 Commons category link is on Wikidata