https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-wheel_drive

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of drivetrain with two driven wheels This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Two-wheel drive" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2010 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Two-wheel drive ( 2WD ) denotes vehicles with a powertrain that allows two wheels to be driven, and receive power and torque from the engine , simultaneously. [ 1 ] Also called all-wheel drive for motorcycles without sidecars. Four-wheeled vehicles [ edit ] For four-wheeled vehicles (and by extension vehicles with more wheels) are referred to as either front -, or rear-wheel drive . The term 4×2 is also used, to denote four total wheels with two being driven. Most road vehicles use 2WD layout due to its lower cost and weight, higher gas mileage and simplicity, and its traction on roads under normal conditions being sufficient with only two wheels. For vehicles that have four-wheel drive (4×4) the term 4×2 refers to the mode when 4×4 is deactivated and power is applied to only two wheels. Two-wheeled vehicles (and above) [ edit ] A two-wheel-drive bicycle with the front wheel propelled by the arms and the rear wheel by the legs (demonstrated by its Dutch inventor on Polygoon , 1942) For two-wheeled vehicles such as motorcycles and bicycles , the term is used to describe vehicles that can power the front as well as the back wheel. The term 2×2 is also used to denote two total wheels with both being driven. 2×2 vehicles are typically either mechanically driven, via a chain , belt , or shaft , or are hydraulic-driven . This scheme greatly improves off-road performance, but is quite complicated and requires more power to operate, thus most 2WD machines are either "exotic" bikes for enthusiasts or created with special uses in mind. Manufacturers who have one in production include Rokon , Jeep , Tarus and Christini. Manufacturers who are working or have worked on a prototype include ZID , Suzuki , Yamaha , KTM , Honda , and Nissan . Two-wheel-drive with sidecars [ edit ] For three-wheeled vehicles such as motorcycles with sidecars , the term is used to describe vehicles that can power the sidecar as well as the back wheel. Sidecar-drive vehicles are typically mechanically driven via a shaft and may or may not have a differential. This scheme greatly improves off-road performance, but is more complicated and requires more power to operate, thus most 2WD machines are vehicles created with special uses in mind such as trials or military use. The first use of the sidecar drive appears in 1928 with the apparent independent invention of Baughan in the UK, and Mokharov in the USSR . [ citation needed ] See also [ edit ] Individual wheel drive Rear-wheel drive All-wheel drive Four-wheel drive References [ edit ] ^ "kbb.com" . External links [ edit ] A brief history of 2×2 motorcycles KTM shows a new all-wheel-drive motorcycle under development Christini All-Wheel-Drive Motorcycles The Dryvtech 2x2x2 Experimental, a 2×2 motorcycle with two-wheel steering v t e Car design Classification By size Micro Kei Subcompact / Supermini Family Compact Mid-size Full-size Custom Baja Bug Hot rod Lead sled Lowrider Sandrail T-bucket Luxury Compact executive Executive Personal Minivan / MPV Compact Leisure Mini SUV Compact Crossover (CUV) Mini Coupe SUV Sports Grand tourer Hot hatch Muscle Pony Sport compact Sports sedan Super Go-kart Other Antique Classic Economy Ute Van Vintage car EU A-segment B-segment C-segment D-segment E-segment F-segment J-segment M-segment S-segment Body styles 2+2 Baquet Barchetta Berlinetta Brougham Cabrio coach Cab over Cabriolet / Convertible / Drophead coupe Coupe Coupé de Ville / Sedanca de Ville Coupé utility Fastback Hardtop Hatchback Kammback Landaulet Liftback Limousine Microvan Minibus Multi-stop truck Notchback Panel van Phaeton Pickup truck Quad coupé Retractable hardtop Roadster / Spider / Spyder Runabout Saloon / Sedan Sedan delivery/Panel van Shooting brake Station wagon Targa top Torpedo Touring Town (Coupé de Ville) T-top Vis-à-vis Specialized vehicles All-terrain vehicle Amphibious Connected Driverless (autonomous) Dune buggy Go-kart Gyrocar Pedal car Personal rapid transit Police car Flying car Taxicab Tow truck Voiturette Propulsion Alternative fuel Autogas Biodiesel Biofuel Biogasoline Biogas Compressed natural gas Diesel Electric ( battery NEV ) Ethanol ( E85 ) Fossil fuel Fuel cell Fuel gas Natural gas Gasoline / petrol ( direct injection ) Homogeneous charge compression ignition Hybrid ( plug-in ) Hydrogen Internal combustion Liquid nitrogen Liquified petroleum gas Steam Drive wheels Front-wheel Rear-wheel Two-wheel Four-wheel Six-wheel Eight-wheel Ten-wheel Twelve-wheel Engine position Front Mid Rear Layout (engine / drive) Front-front Front mid-front Rear-front Front-rear Rear mid-rear Rear-rear Front-four-wheel Mid-four-wheel Rear-four-wheel Dual motor-four-wheel Individual wheel drive Engine configuration ( internal combustion ) Boxer Flat Four-stroke H-block Reciprocating Single-cylinder Straight Two-stroke V (Vee) W engine Wankel Portal Category Template:EC car classification Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Two-wheel_drive&oldid=1323666163 " Categories : Car layouts Motorcycle transmissions Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from December 2010 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2007