https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crack_arrestor

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Structural engineering reinforcement A crack arrestor (otherwise known as a rip-stop doubler ) is a structural engineering device. Being typically shaped into ring or strip, and composed of a strong material, it serves to contain stress corrosion cracking or fatigue cracking, helping to prevent the catastrophic failure of a device. The crack arrestor can be as simple as a thickened region of metal, or may be constructed of a laminated or woven material that can be designed to withstand deformation without failure. When correctly applied, the technique is capable of redirecting movement and safely distributing stresses. [ 1 ] It is compatible with fail-safe design practices. [ 2 ] Applications [ edit ] Crack arrestors have seen extensive use in the aviation sector, particularly upon large pressurised aircraft as a means of guarding against progressive metal fatigue. [ 3 ] Specifically, the skin of the fuselage typically has a large number of high stress locations, rivetting being a leading cause, making these points of potential crack initiation. Calculations are frequently used to simulate crack propagation, as well as the effectiveness of mitigating measures, such as crack arrestors, in ensuring the aircraft can be safely operated. [ 3 ] Following two catastrophic airframe failures in 1954 , crack arrestors were used as additional reinforcement of the fuselage of the de Havilland Comet , although this was only one of several design changes made to address structural design weaknesses related to metal fatigue and skin stresses that had been previously unknown to the aviation industry. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Naval vessels are another place where crack arrestors have been extensively used. As of the 2010s, the United States Navy frequently applies them to areas of the ship that have been damaged or otherwise have received repairs in order to ensure that the affected element is not lacking in either strength or durability. It has been acknowledged that ships primarily composed of aluminium are significantly more prone to crack propagation than older steel counterparts; thus, the use of mitigating measures is likely to become more commonplace. [ 6 ] Crack arrestors have also been used in civil engineering . They have long been used in the nuclear industry as a structural element of reactors . [ 7 ] Numerous pipelines used from transporting chemicals have been reinforced with such devices to protect against bursting and exterior damage alike. [ 8 ] While commonly applied to metal alloys, appropriately designed crack arrestors have been used with composite materials as well. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] During 2008, Airbus Group was awarded a patent for a new design technique for a crack arrestor component. [ 11 ] Citations [ edit ] ^ "High strain deformation" (PDF) . uobabylon.edu.iq. 20 June 2020. ^ Sairam Kotari; S.M. Gangadhar; A. Amala; P. Poornima; P. Janaki Ramulua (1 February 2014). "Design and Analysis of Crack Stopper" (PDF) . International Journal of Current Engineering and Technology. ^ a b Venkatesha, B K (January 2012). "Analytical Evaluation of Fatigue Crack Arrest Capability in Fuselage of Large Transport Aircraft" . pp. 13– 22. ^ R.J. Atkinson; W.J. Winkworth; G.M. Norris (1962). "Behaviour of Skin Fatigue Cracks at the Corners of Windows in a Comet Fuselage". Aeronautrical Research Council Reports and Memoranda . CiteSeerX 10.1.1.226.7667 . ^ Faith, Nicholas (1996). Black Box: Why Air Safety is no Accident, The Book Every Air Traveller Should Read . London: Boxtree. p. 72. ISBN 0-7522-2118-3 . ^ "Effective Crack Arrestors for On-Board Fatigue Crack Repair of Aluminum Ship Structures" . Department of Defense. 17 February 2016. ^ G. R. Irwin; J. M. Krafft; P. C. Paris; A. A. Wells (21 November 1967). "Basic Aspects of Crack Growth and Fracture" (PDF) . apps.dtic.mil. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 24, 2020. ^ Brauer, H.; Knauf, G.; Hillenbrand, H.-G. (9–12 May 2004). "Crack arrestors" (PDF) . Ostend, Belgium: 4th International Conference on Pipeline Technology. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 July 2011 . Retrieved 11 June 2010 . ^ Harris, Bryan (2003). Fatigue in composites: Science and technology of the fatigue response of fibre-reinforced plastics (PDF) . Cambridge, England: Woodhead Publishing. p. 198. ISBN 1-85573-608-X – via dl.polycomposite.ir. ^ Thomas Kruse; Thomas Körwien; Roman Ruzek; Robert Hangx; Calvin Rans (2007). "Fatigue behavior and damage tolerant design of bonded joints for aerospace application on Fiber Metal Laminates and composites" (PDF) . 29th ICAF Symposium. ^ "DE102008023495A1: Component for an aircraft structure, method for producing a component for an aircraft structure and use of the component as a crack stopper" . 2008. v t e Aircraft components and systems Airframe structure Aft pressure bulkhead Cabane strut Canopy Crack arrestor Cruciform tail Dope Empennage Fabric covering Fairing Flying wires Former Fuselage Hardpoint Interplane strut Jury strut Leading edge Lift strut Longeron Nacelle Rib Spar Stabilizer Stressed skin Strut T-tail Tailplane Trailing edge Triple tail Twin tail V-tail Vertical stabilizer Wing root Wing tip Wingbox Flight controls Aileron Airbrake Artificial feel Autopilot Canard Centre stick Deceleron Dive brake Dual control Electro-hydraulic actuator Elevator Elevon Flaperon Flight control modes Fly-by-wire Gust lock HOTAS Rudder Rudder pedals Servo tab Side-stick Spoiler Spoileron Stabilator Stick pusher Stick shaker Trim tab Wing warping Yaw damper Yoke Aerodynamic and high-lift devices Active Aeroelastic Wing Adaptive compliant wing Anti-shock body Blown flap Channel wing Dog-tooth Drag-reducing aerospike Flap Gouge flap Gurney flap Krueger flap Leading-edge cuff Leading-edge droop flap LEX Slats Slot Stall strips Strake Variable-sweep wing Vortex generator Vortilon Wing fence Winglet Avionic and flight instrument systems ACAS Air data boom Air data computer Aircraft periscope Airspeed indicator Altimeter Annunciator panel Astrodome Attitude indicator Compass Course deviation indicator EFIS EICAS Flight management system Glass cockpit GPS Head-up display Heading indicator Horizontal situation indicator INS ISIS Multi-function display Pitot–static system Radar altimeter TCAS Transponder Turn and slip indicator Variometer Yaw string Propulsion controls, devices and fuel systems Autothrottle Drop tank FADEC Fuel tank Gascolator Inlet cone Intake ramp NACA cowling NACA duct Self-sealing fuel tank Splitter plate Throttle Thrust lever Thrust reversal Townend ring War emergency power Wet wing Landing and arresting gear Aircraft tire Arrestor hook Autobrake Conventional landing gear Drogue parachute Landing gear Landing gear extender Oleo strut Tricycle landing gear Tundra tire Escape systems Ejection seat Escape crew capsule Other systems Aircraft lavatory Auxiliary power unit Bleed air system Deicing boot Emergency oxygen system Environmental control system Flight recorder Hydraulic system Ice protection system In-flight entertainment system Landing lights Navigation light Passenger service unit Ram air turbine This engineering-related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Crack_arrestor&oldid=1244621030 " Categories : Fracture mechanics Aircraft components Aerospace engineering Engineering stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All stub articles