https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barlow%27s_wheel

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Early demonstration of an electric motor An 1842 diagram of Barlow's wheel Model with two wheels in series, manufactured in 1845 for educational use Barlow's wheel was an early demonstration of a homopolar motor , designed and built by English mathematician and physicist Peter Barlow in 1822. [ 1 ] It consists of a star-shaped wheel free to turn, suspended over a trough of the liquid metal mercury , with the points dipping into the mercury, between the poles of a horseshoe magnet . A direct electric current passes from the hub of the wheel, through the wheel into the mercury and out through an electrical contact dipping into the mercury. The Lorentz force of the magnetic field on the moving charges in the wheel causes the wheel to rotate. The presence of serrations on the wheel is unnecessary, and the apparatus will work with a round metal disk, usually made of copper . [ 2 ] The points of the wheel, R, dip into mercury contained in a groove hollowed in the stand. A more rapid revolution will be obtained if a small electro-magnet be substituted for a steel magnet, as is shown in the cut. The electro-magnet is fixed to the stand, and included in the circuit with the spur-wheel, so that the current flows through them in succession. Hence, the direction of the rotation will not be changed by reversing that of the current; since the polarity of the electromagnet will also be reversed. — Excerpt taken from the 1842 edition of the Manual of Magnetism, page 94 [ 3 ] It is used as a demonstration of electromagnetism in physics education. Because mercury is toxic, brine is sometimes used in place of mercury in modern recreations of the experiment. How it works [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( November 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Action of a magnet on current and how rotational motion is produced due to this can be shown by Barlow's wheel experiment. The apparatus consists of a star-shaped copper wheel capable of rotating freely in a vertical plane about a horizontal axis. The point of each spoke of the star just dips into a pool of mercury kept in a small groove on the wooden base of the apparatus. The pool of mercury is kept in between the two opposite poles of a strong magnet. The wheel then rotates with its plane being perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic field, and during its rotation only one point of the star dips into the pool of mercury at a time. When the axis of the wheel and the mercury are connected to electric cell, the circuit is completed through the axis of the wheel (when a point dips in the mercury) and the mercury. On passing current through the circuit, the wheel will begin to rotate due to the action of the magnet on the current. The direction of rotation of the wheel can be determined by applying Fleming's left-hand rule . While rotating and when a spoke of the wheel just leaves the mercury, the circuit breaks, but due to inertia of motion, the wheel continues its motion and brings the next spoke in contact with the mercury, thereby restoring the electrical contact. In this way rotation of the wheel continues. On reversing the direction of the current or that of the magnetic field the wheel rotates in the opposite direction. The speed of rotation depends upon the strength of the magnetic field and the strength of the current. Here mechanical energy is obtained from electrical energy. References [ edit ] ^ on Peter Barlow in the Encyclopedia of geomagnetism and Paleomagnetism By David Gubbins, Emilio Herrero-Bervera, ISBN 1-4020-3992-1 , ISBN 978-1-4020-3992-8 , p. 44. ^ Barlow's wheel, electric motor . YouTube . Oct 25, 2013. ^ "Full text of 'Davis's Manual of Magnetism: Including Also Electro-magnetism, Magneto-electricity, and Thermo ...' " . archive.org . 1842. External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Barlow's wheel . Barlow's wheel designed by Eckling 1840 (German page) Barlow's Wheel , National High Magnetic Field Laboratory 5H40.50 BARLOW'S WHEEL v t e Electric machines AC - Alternating current DC - Direct current PM - Permanent magnet Components Rotor Stator Winding Armature Field coil Damper winding Slip ring Commutator Brush Generators AC generator Alternator Flux switching alternator Linear alternator PM synchronous generator Magneto Induction generator Doubly fed induction generator Single-phase generator DC generator Dynamo Homopolar generator Motors AC motor Induction motor Shaded-pole motor Dahlander pole changing motor Wound rotor motor Linear induction motor Doubly fed electric machine Synchronous motor Repulsion motor DC motor Brushed DC electric motor Brushless DC electric motor Stepper motor Homopolar motor Universal motor Reluctance motor Switched reluctance motor Synchronous reluctance motor Axial flux motor Radial flux motor PM motor Dual-rotor motor Linear motor Ball bearing motor Electrostatic motor Piezoelectric motor Ultrasonic motor Servomotor Traction motor TEFC motor Motor controllers and other accessories AC-to-AC converter Cycloconverter Amplidyne Drives Variable-frequency drive Direct torque control Vector control Metadyne Motor soft starter Ward Leonard control Braking chopper DC injection brake module History, education, recreational use Timeline of the electric motor Barlow's wheel Lynch motor Mendocino motor Mouse mill motor Experimental, futuristic Coilgun Railgun Superconducting machine Related topics Blocked-rotor test Circle diagram Coil winding technology Electromagnetism Open-circuit test Open-loop controller Power-to-weight ratio Two-phase system Inchworm motor Starter Voltage controller People Arago Barlow Botto Davenport Davidson Dolivo-Dobrovolsky Faraday Ferraris Gramme Henry Jacobi Jedlik Lenz Maxwell Ørsted Park Pacinotti Pixii Saxton Siemens Sprague Steinmetz Sturgeon Tesla This section needs expansion with: examples and additional citations. You can help by adding to it . ( January 2009 ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Barlow%27s_wheel&oldid=1323637952 " Category : Electric motors Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from November 2025 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles to be expanded from January 2009 All articles to be expanded