https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Furnace_(house_heating)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Furnace (house heating) ) Device used for heating buildings For other uses, see Furnace (disambiguation) . See also: Boiler (water heating) This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Furnace" central heating – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2007 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article includes a list of general references , but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. ( April 2014 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject . You may improve this article , discuss the issue on the talk page , or create a new article , as appropriate. ( November 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) An oil furnace A furnace ( American English ), referred to as a heater or boiler in British English , is an appliance used to generate heat for all or part of a building. Furnaces are mostly used as a major component of a central heating system . Furnaces are permanently installed to provide heat to an interior space through intermediary fluid movement, which may be air , steam , or hot water . Heating appliances that use steam or hot water as the fluid are normally referred to as a residential steam boilers or residential hot water boilers.  The most common fuel source for modern furnaces in North America and much of Europe is natural gas ; other common fuel sources include LPG (liquefied petroleum gas), fuel oil , wood and in rare cases coal . In some areas electrical resistance heating is used, especially where the cost of electricity is low or the primary purpose is for air conditioning. Modern high-efficiency furnaces can be up to 98% efficient and operate without a chimney, with a typical gas furnace being about 80% efficient. [ 1 ] Waste gas and heat are mechanically ventilated through either metal flue pipes or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes that can be vented through the side or roof of the structure. Fuel efficiency in a gas furnace is measured in AFUE (Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiency). Etymology [ edit ] The name derives from Latin word fornax , [ 2 ] which means oven . Categories [ edit ] Furnaces can be classified into four general categories, based on efficiency and design, natural draft, forced-air, forced draft, and condensing. Natural draft [ edit ] Diagram of natural draft gas furnace, early 20th century. The first category of furnaces is natural draft, atmospheric burner furnaces.  These furnaces consisted of cast-iron or riveted-steel heat exchangers built within an outer shell of brick, masonry, or steel. The heat exchangers were vented through brick or masonry chimneys. Air circulation depended on large, upwardly pitched pipes constructed of wood or metal. The pipes would channel the warm air into floor or wall vents inside the home. This method of heating worked because warm air rises . The system was simple, had few controls, a single automatic gas valve, and no blower. These furnaces could be made to work with any fuel simply by adapting the burner area. They have been operated with wood, coke, coal, trash, paper, natural gas, fuel oil as well as whale oil for a brief period at the turn of the century. Furnaces that used solid fuels required daily maintenance to remove ash and "clinkers" that accumulated in the bottom of the burner area. In later years, these furnaces were adapted with electric blowers to aid air distribution and speed moving heat into the home. Gas and oil-fired systems were usually controlled by a thermostat inside the home, while most wood and coal-fired furnaces had no electrical connection and were controlled by the amount of fuel in the burner and position of the fresh-air damper on the burner access door. Forced-air [ edit ] The second category of furnace is the forced-air having atmospheric burner style with a cast-iron or sectional steel heat exchanger. Through the 1950s and 1960s, this style of furnace was used to replace the big, natural draft systems, and was sometimes installed on the existing gravity duct work. The heated air was moved by blowers which were belted driven and designed for a wide range of speeds. These furnaces were still big and bulky compared to modern furnaces, and had heavy-steel exteriors with bolt-on removable panels. Energy efficiency would range anywhere from just over 50% to upward of 65% AFUE . This style furnace still used large, masonry or brick chimneys for flues and was eventually designed to accommodate air-conditioning systems. Forced draft [ edit ] The third category of furnace is the forced draft, mid-efficiency furnace with a steel heat exchanger and multi-speed blower. These furnaces were physically much more compact than the previous styles.  They were equipped with combustion air blowers that would pull air through the heat exchanger which greatly increased fuel efficiency while allowing the heat exchangers to become smaller.  These furnaces may have multi-speed blowers and were designed to work with central air-conditioning systems. Condensing [ edit ] A condensing furnace Main article: Condensing boiler The fourth category of furnace is the high-efficiency condensing gas furnace. High efficiency condensing gas furnaces typically achieve between 90% and 98% AFUE. [ 3 ] A condensing gas furnace includes a sealed combustion area, combustion draft inducer and a secondary heat exchanger . The primary gain in efficiency for a condensing gas furnace, as compared to a mid-efficiency forced-air or forced-draft furnace, is the capture of latent heat from the exhaust gases in the secondary heat exchanger. The secondary heat exchanger removes most of the heat energy from the exhaust gas, actually condensing water vapour and other chemicals (which form a mild acid) as it operates. The vent pipes, also known as the exhaust system, are often installed using PVC pipe instead of metal venting pipe to prevent corrosion, but this will vary based on geographical location of the installation and local regulations. The draft inducer allows for the exhaust piping to be routed vertically or horizontally as it exits the structure. A typical installation arrangement for high-efficiency furnaces includes a fresh air intake (supply) pipe that brings fresh air from outside the home to the furnace combustion unit. Normally the fresh combustion air is routed alongside the exhaust PVC during installation and the pipes exit through a sidewall of the home in the same location. High efficiency furnaces typically deliver a 25% to 35% fuel savings over a 60% AFUE furnace. Types of furnace output control [ edit ] Single-stage [ edit ] A single-stage furnace has only one stage of operation, it is either on or off. This means that it is relatively noisy, always running at the highest speed, and always pumping out the hottest air at the highest velocity. One of the benefits to a single-stage furnace is typically the cost for installation. Single-stage furnaces are relatively inexpensive since the technology is rather simple. However, the simplicity of single-stage gas furnaces come at the cost of blower motor noise and mechanical inefficiency. The blower motors on these single-stage furnaces consume more energy overall because, regardless of the heating requirements of the space, the fan and blower motors operate at a fixed-speed. Due to its One-Speed operation, a single-stage furnace is also called a single-speed furnace. [ 4 ] Two-stage [ edit ] A two-stage furnace has to do two stage full speed and half (or reduced) speed. Depending on the demanded heat, they can run at a lower speed most of the time. They can be quieter, move the air at less velocity, and will better keep the desired temperature in the house. Modulating [ edit ] A modulating furnace can modulate the heat output and air velocity nearly continuously, depending on the demanded heat and outside temperature. This means that it only works as much as necessary and therefore saves energy. Heat distribution [ edit ] "Octopus" furnace with oil burner. The furnace transfers heat to the living space of the building through an intermediary distribution system. If the distribution is through hot water (or other fluid) or through steam, then the furnace is more commonly called a boiler . One advantage of a boiler is that the furnace can provide hot water for bathing and washing dishes, rather than requiring a separate water heater . One disadvantage to this type of application is when the boiler breaks down, neither heating nor domestic hot water are available. Air convection heating systems have been in use for over a century.  Older systems rely on a passive air circulation system where the greater density of cooler air causes it to sink into the furnace area below, through air return registers in the floor, and the lesser density of warmed air causes it to rise in the ductwork; the two forces acting together to drive air circulation in a system termed 'gravity-fed'. The layout of these 'octopus’ furnaces and their duct systems is optimized with various diameters of large dampered ducts. Forced-air gas furnace, design circa 1991. By comparison, most modern "warm air" furnaces typically use a fan to circulate air to the rooms of house and pull cooler air back to the furnace for reheating; this is called forced-air heat. Because the fan easily overcomes the resistance of the ductwork, the arrangement of ducts can be far more flexible than the octopus of old. In American practice, separate ducts collect cool air to be returned to the furnace. At the furnace, cool air passes into the furnace, usually through an air filter, through the blower, then through the heat exchanger of the furnace, whence it is blown throughout the building . One major advantage of this type of system is that it also enables easy installation of central air conditioning , simply by adding a cooling coil at the outlet of the furnace. Air is circulated through ductwork , which may be made of sheet metal or plastic "flex" duct, and is insulated or uninsulated. Unless the ducts and plenum have been sealed using mastic or foil duct tape, the ductwork is likely to have a high leakage of conditioned air, possibly into unconditioned spaces. Another cause of wasted energy is the installation of ductwork in unheated areas, such as attics and crawl spaces; or ductwork of air conditioning systems in attics in warm climates. See also [ edit ] Phase-out of gas boilers Condensing boiler Forced-air gas Jetstream furnace Outdoor wood-fired boiler Masonry heater Heat pump Notes [ edit ] ^ Johnson, Bill; Standiford, Kevin (2008-08-28). Practical Heating Technology . Cengage Learning. p. 116. ISBN 978-1418080396 . ^ Chisholm, Hugh , ed. (1911). "Furnace" . Encyclopædia Britannica . Vol. 11 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 358. ^ US Dept. of Energy. "Furnaces and Boilers" . US Dept. of Energy . ^ Ahmed, Rifat (2020-06-01). "Handbook on Single, Multi & Variable Speed Furnaces" (PDF) . Green Leaf Air . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2020-07-05 . Retrieved 2020-08-17 . References [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Furnace . Gray, W.A.; Muller, R (1974). Engineering calculations in radiative heat transfer (1st ed.). Pergamon Press Ltd. ISBN 0-08-017786-7 . Fiveland, W.A.; Crosbie, A.L.; Smith, A.M.; Smith, T.F., eds. (1991). Fundamentals of radiation heat transfer . American Society of Mechanical Engineers. ISBN 0-7918-0729-0 . Warring, R. H (1982). Handbook of valves, piping and pipelines (1st ed.). Gulf Publishing Company. ISBN 0-87201-885-7 . Dukelow, Samuel G (1985). Improving boiler efficiency (2nd ed.). Instrument Society of America. ISBN 0-87664-852-9 . Whitehouse, R.C., ed. (1993). The valve and actuator user's manual . Mechanical Engineering Publications. ISBN 0-85298-805-2 . Davies, Clive (1970). Calculations in furnace technology (1st ed.). Pergamon Press. ISBN 0-08-013366-5 . Goldstick, R.; Thumann, A (1986). Principles of waste heat recovery . Fairmont Press. ISBN 0-88173-015-7 . ASHRAE Handbook. Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems and equipment . ASHRAE. 1992. ISBN 0-910110-80-8 . ISSN 1078-6066 . Perry, R.H.; Green, D.W., eds. (1997). Perry's Chemical Engineers' Handbook (7th ed.). McGraw-Hill. ISBN 0-07-049841-5 . Lieberman, P.; Lieberman, Elizabeth T (2003). Working Guide to Process Equipment (2nd ed.). McGraw-Hill. ISBN 0-07-139087-1 . v t e Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning Fundamental concepts Air changes per hour (ACH) Bake-out Building envelope Convection Dilution Domestic energy consumption Enthalpy Fluid dynamics Gas compressor Heat pump and refrigeration cycle Heat transfer Humidity Infiltration Latent heat Noise control Outgassing Particulates Psychrometrics Sensible heat Stack effect Thermal comfort Thermal destratification Thermal mass Thermodynamics Vapour pressure of water Technology Absorption-compression heat pump Absorption refrigerator Air barrier Air conditioning Antifreeze Automobile air conditioning Autonomous building Building insulation materials Central heating Central solar heating Chilled beam Chilled water Constant air volume (CAV) Coolant Cross ventilation Dedicated outdoor air system (DOAS) Deep water source cooling Demand controlled ventilation (DCV) Displacement ventilation District cooling District heating Electric heating Energy recovery ventilation (ERV) Firestop Forced-air Forced-air gas Free cooling Heat recovery ventilation (HRV) Hybrid heat Hydronics Ice storage air conditioning Kitchen ventilation Mixed-mode ventilation Microgeneration Passive cooling Passive daytime radiative cooling Passive house Passive ventilation Radiant heating and cooling Radiant cooling Radiant heating Radon mitigation Refrigeration Renewable heat Room air distribution Solar air heat Solar combisystem Solar cooling Solar heating Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Underfloor air distribution Underfloor heating Vapor barrier Vapor-compression refrigeration (VCRS) Variable air volume (VAV) Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) Ventilation Water heat recycling Components Air conditioner inverter Air door Air filter Air handler Air ionizer Air-mixing plenum Air purifier Air source heat pump Attic fan Automatic balancing valve Back boiler Barrier pipe Blast damper Boiler Centrifugal fan Ceramic heater Chiller Condensate pump Condenser Condensing boiler Convection heater Compressor Cooling tower Damper Dehumidifier Duct Economizer Electrostatic precipitator Evaporative cooler Evaporator Exhaust hood Expansion tank Fan Fan coil unit Fan filter unit Fan heater Fire damper Fireplace Fireplace insert Freeze stat Flue Freon Fume hood Furnace Gas compressor Gas heater Gasoline heater Grease duct Grille Ground-coupled heat exchanger Ground source heat pump Heat exchanger Heat pipe Heat pump Heating film Heating system HEPA High efficiency glandless circulating pump High-pressure cut-off switch Humidifier Infrared heater Inverter compressor Kerosene heater Louver Mechanical room Oil heater Packaged terminal air conditioner Plenum space Pressurisation ductwork Process duct work Radiator Radiator reflector Recuperator Refrigerant Register Reversing valve Run-around coil Sail switch Scroll compressor Solar chimney Solar-assisted heat pump Space heater Smoke canopy Smoke damper Smoke exhaust ductwork Thermal expansion valve Thermal wheel Thermostatic radiator valve Trickle vent Trombe wall TurboSwing Turning vanes Ultra-low particulate air (ULPA) Whole-house fan Windcatcher Wood-burning stove Zone valve Measurement and control Air flow meter Aquastat BACnet Blower door Building automation Carbon dioxide sensor Clean air delivery rate (CADR) Control valve Gas detector Home energy monitor Humidistat HVAC control system Infrared thermometer Intelligent buildings LonWorks Minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) Normal temperature and pressure (NTP) OpenTherm Programmable communicating thermostat Programmable thermostat Psychrometrics Room temperature Smart thermostat Standard temperature and pressure (STP) Thermographic camera Thermostat Thermostatic radiator valve Professions, trades, and services Architectural acoustics Architectural engineering Architectural technologist Building services engineering Building information modeling (BIM) Deep energy retrofit Duct cleaning Duct leakage testing Environmental engineering Hydronic balancing Kitchen exhaust cleaning Mechanical engineering Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Mold growth, assessment, and remediation Refrigerant reclamation Testing, adjusting, balancing Industry organizations AHRI AMCA ASHRAE ASTM International BRE BSRIA CIBSE Institute of Refrigeration IIR LEED SMACNA UMC Health and safety Indoor air quality (IAQ) Passive smoking Sick building syndrome (SBS) Volatile organic compound (VOC) See also ASHRAE Handbook Building science Fireproofing Glossary of HVAC terms Warm Spaces World Refrigeration Day Template:Fire protection Template:Home automation Template:Solar energy Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Furnace_(central_heating)&oldid=1326782944 " Categories : Residential heating appliances Industrial furnaces Industrial processes Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from July 2007 All articles needing additional references Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2014 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles with limited geographic scope from November 2022 United States-centric Articles with multiple maintenance issues Commons link is locally defined