https://www.motortrend.com/news/2026-toty-contenders

2026 MotorTrend Truck of the Year: One of These Trucks Is the Winner! 2026 MotorTrend Truck of the Year: One of These Trucks Is the Winner It was an all-American field this year, as EVs, diesels, and trucks of all sizes competed for the most coveted award in truckdom. MotorTrend Staff Writer Dec 08, 2025 Truck of the Year is here ! Each year, MotorTrend sets out to determine which pickup pushes the segment forward, eventually naming it as our Truck of the Year following thousands of miles of evaluation. This year, six nameplates and nine total contenders showed up. Eligibility is straightforward: A truck must be all-new or significantly revised. And instead of direct comparisons, every pickup truck (and van, if applicable) is measured against MotorTrend ’s six key criteria: value, safety, efficiency, performance of intended function, design advancement, and engineering excellence. Testing begins at a professional proving ground, where we run each truck through a barrage of instrumented tests. Then we take them into the real world and drive them for more than a week's worth of towing, payload hauling, freeway drives, dirt-road running, and serious off-roading. Unlike our Car and SUV of the Year competitions, there are no finalists here—every contender goes the distance. Once we’ve collected our data and argued the merits of each truck, the judges cast their ballots and the the top vote-getter earns the title of 2026 MotorTrend Truck of the Year. Ready to meet the full roster? Keep reading—but if you just can’t wait, click here to see this year’s winner . Chevrolet BrightDrop Originally launched as the BrightDrop Zevo, General Motors rebadged its all-electric commercial van as a Chevrolet a couple of years ago. It's not common that we have vans at Truck of the Year—delivery vehicles aren't redesigned very often—but we were summarily impressed with the BrightDrop. There's just one huge, insurmountable problem… [ Full Expert TOTY Review ] Chevrolet Silverado EV Trail Boss Chevy ditched the RST at the top of its Silverado EV lineup and replaced it with this, the Trail Boss. Unfortunately, it didn't boss the trails so much as it let them do the bossing. Still, there's a lot to like about Chevy's electric pickup truck. [ Full Expert TOTY Review ] GMC Sierra EV Elevation Like Chevy, GMC futzed with its electric truck's lineup this year, adding the Elevation at the bottom as a new cheaper point of entry. Of course, it can be optioned right back into the think of things, which was the case with our test truck. [ Full Expert TOTY Review ] Ford Maverick We've loved the Maverick since its launch as a 2022 model, and this year's comprehensive update made it even better. The lineup gained not only the AWD hybrid version the market has been clamoring for but also the sport Lobo street truck. We tested both for the competition this year. [ Full Expert TOTY Review ] Ram 1500 Hemi Ram's bread-and-butter truck won it the whole thing last year, and the 2025 Truck of the Year returns to defend its title with the resurrected Hemi engine under its hood. We had both affordable Warlock and fancier Laramie models in our test field. [ Full Expert TOTY Review ] Ram 2500 The Ram 2500 powered into Truck of the Year contention on the back of a heavy update for this year. Ram sent us two examples to viw for the title, a long-wheelbase Limited and a burly Power Wagon. They definitely impressed our judges, but was it enough to take home the title? [ Full Expert TOTY Review ] MotorTrend Staff Share You May Also Like MotorTrend Recommended Stories Load More