https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mid-engined

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Mid-engined ) Automobile design in which the engine is placed between the front and rear axles This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( March 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Mid-engine design" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) "Midship" redirects here. For the nautical expression, see Midships . Formula One cars use rear-mid engine rear-wheel-drive design. In automotive engineering , a mid-engine layout is the placement of an automobile engine in front of the rear-wheel axles , but behind the front axle. History [ edit ] The mid-engine, rear-wheel-drive format can be considered the original layout of automobiles. [ citation needed ] A 1901 Autocar was the first gasoline-powered automobile to use a drive shaft and placed the engine under the seat. This pioneering vehicle is now in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution . [ 1 ] Benefits [ edit ] The Lotus Europa S1 was based on a prototype built to compete for Henry Ford II's contract to build a Le Mans race car in the early 1960s. Mounting the engine in the middle instead of the front of the vehicle puts more weight over the rear tires, so they have more traction and provide more assistance to the front tires in braking the vehicle, with less chance of rear-wheel lockup and less chance of a skid or spin out . If the mid-engine vehicle is also rear-drive the added weight on the rear tires can also improve acceleration on slippery surfaces, providing much of the benefit of all-wheel drive without the added weight and expense of all-wheel-drive components. The mid-engine layout makes ABS brakes and traction control systems work better, by providing them more traction to control. The mid-engine layout may make a vehicle safer since an accident can occur if a vehicle cannot stay in its own lane around a curve or is unable to stop quickly enough. Mid-engine design is also a way to provide additional empty crush space in the front of the automobile between the bumper and the windshield, which can then be designed to absorb more of the impact force in a frontal collision in order to minimize penetration into the passenger compartment of the vehicle. In most automobiles, and in sports cars especially, ideal car handling requires balanced traction between the front and rear wheels when cornering, in order to maximize the possible speed around curves without sliding out. This balance is harder to achieve when the heavy weight of the engine is located far to the front or far to the rear of the vehicle. Some automobile designs strive to balance the fore and aft weight distribution by other means, such as putting the engine in the front and the gearbox and battery in the rear of the vehicle. Another benefit comes when the heavy mass of the engine is located close to the back of the seats. It makes it easier for the suspension to absorb the force of bumps so the riders feel a smoother ride. But in sports cars, the engine position is once again used to increase performance and the potentially smoother ride is usually more than offset by stiffer shock absorbers . This layout also allows the motor, gearbox, and differential to be bolted together as a single unit. Together with independent suspension on the driven wheels, this removes the need for the chassis to transfer engine torque reaction. Drawbacks [ edit ] Underfloor mid-engine in a historical Hanomag truck chassis The largest drawback of mid-engine cars is restricted rear or front (in the case of front-mid layouts) passenger space; consequently, most mid-engine vehicles are two-seat vehicles.  The engine in effect pushes the rear passenger seats forward towards the front axle (if the engine is behind the driver). Exceptions typically involve larger vehicles of unusual length or height in which the passengers can share space between the axles with the engine, which can be between them or below them, as in some vans, large trucks, and buses. The mid-engine layout (with a horizontal engine) was common in single-decker buses in the 1950s and 1960s, e.g. the AEC Reliance . The Ferrari Mondial is to date the only successful example of a true mid-engined convertible with seating for 4 and sports car/supercar performance.  A version of the Lotus Evora with a removable roof panel is anticipated but no definite date is known. Like any layout where the engine is not front-mounted and facing the wind, the traditional "engine-behind-the-passengers" layout makes engine cooling more difficult.  This has been a problem in some cars, [ citation needed ] but this issue seems to have been largely solved in newer designs. For example, the Saleen S7 employs large engine-compartment vents on the sides and rear of the bodywork to help dissipate heat from its very high-output engine. Mid-engined cars are more dangerous than front-engined cars if the driver loses control – although this may be initially harder to provoke due to the superior balance – and the car begins to spin.  The moment of inertia about the center of gravity is low due to the concentration of mass between the axles (similar to standing in the middle of a playground roundabout, rather than at the edge) and the spin will occur suddenly, the car will rotate faster and it will be harder to recover from.  Conversely, a front-engined car is more likely to break away in a progressive and controllable manner as the tires lose traction. Variations [ edit ] Super, sport, and race cars frequently have a mid-engined layout, as these vehicles' handling characteristics are more important than other requirements, such as usable space. In dedicated sports cars, a weight distribution of about 50% front and rear is frequently pursued, to optimise the vehicle's driving dynamics – a target that is typically only achievable by placing the engine somewhere between the front and rear axles. Usually, the term "mid-engine" has been primarily applied to cars having the engine located between the driver and the rear drive axles. This layout is referred to as rear mid-engine, rear-wheel drive , (or RMR) layout. The mechanical layout and packaging of an RMR car are substantially different from that of a front-engine or rear-engine car. When the engine is in front of the driver, but fully behind the front axle line, the layout is sometimes called a front mid-engine, rear-wheel-drive, or FMR layout instead of the less-specific term front-engine; and can be considered a subset of the latter. In-vehicle layout, FMR is substantially the same as FR, but handling differs as a result of the difference in weight distribution. Some vehicles could be classified as FR or FMR depending on the factory-installed engine (I4 vs I6).  Historically most classical FR cars such as the Ford Models T and A would qualify as an FMR engine car.  Additionally, the distinction between FR and FMR is a fluid one, depending on the degree of engine protrusion in front of the front axle line, as manufacturers mount engines as far back in the chassis as possible.  Not all manufacturers use the Front-Mid designation. Examples [ edit ] FMR layout – Front Mid-engine / Rear-wheel drive [ edit ] Main article: Front mid-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout Front mid-engine position / Rear-wheel drive Front mid-engine position / Rear-wheel drive These cars are RWD cars with the engine placed between the driver and the front axle. Alfa Romeo 8C Competizione AC Cobra Aston Martin Vanquish , Vantage (2005) , Vantage (2018) , DB7 , DB9 , DB11 , DB12 , DBS V12 , DBS Superleggera , Virage (2011–2012) BMW Z1 , Z8 , M8 GTE Chevrolet Corvette ( second through seventh generations ) Bill Thomas Cheetah (used only one universal joint between transmission tailshaft housing and differential housing) Dodge A100 and Viper Excalibur SSK, SS Roadster and SS Phaeton Ferrari 250 GTO , 599 GTB Fiorano , 612 Scaglietti , F12 Berlinetta , 812 Superfast , GTC4Lusso T , California , Portofino , Roma and 12Cilindri Ford Econoline (first generation) Genesis G70 / Kia Stinger Honda S2000 Infiniti G Line (third and fourth generation) Jaguar E-Type Lexus LFA Maserati Quattroporte V , GranTurismo / GranCabrio Mazda Bongo (second generation), RX-7 , MX-5 (NC and ND) and RX-8 Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren , SLS AMG and AMG GT Morgan +4 , 4/4 , Aero 8 , Plus Four , Plus Six and Plus 8 Nissan Z (fifth through seventh generations) Opel GT (original) Shelby Daytona Toyota Previa (first generation) and 2000GT Most pre–World War II front-engine rear-wheel-drive cars FM4 layout – Front Mid-engine / Four-wheel drive [ edit ] Front mid-engine position / Four-wheel drive This layout, similar to the above FMR layout, with the engine between the driver and the front axle, adds front-wheel drive to become a four-wheel drive.  An engineering challenge with this layout is getting the power to the front wheels past the engine – this would normally involve raising the engine to allow a propshaft to pass under the engine, or in the case of the Ferrari FF taking power from both ends of the crankshaft with two separate gearboxes. Toyota Previa All-Trac variant Ferrari FF , GTC4Lusso and Purosangue Genesis G70 / Kia Stinger Jensen FF Hummer H1 Willys MB Nissan GT-R Most early front-engine off-road cars RMR layout – Rear Mid-engine / Rear-wheel drive [ edit ] Rear mid-engine position / Rear-wheel drive Main article: Rear mid-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout These cars use a traditional engine layout between the driver and the rear-drive axle. Typically, they're simply called MR; for mid-rear (engined), or mid-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout cars. Alfa Romeo 4C Alpine A110 (2017) Apollo Intensa Emozione Ariel Atom Aston Martin Valkyrie Autozam AZ-1 BMW M1 Chevrolet Corvette (C8) Consulier GTP DeTomaso Vallelunga , Mangusta , Pantera , Guarà Ferrari 250 LM , 308 , 328 , 348 , F355 , 360 , F430 , 458 , 488 , F8 , 296 GTB , Berlinetta Boxer , Mondial , Testarossa , F40 , F50 , Enzo , FXX , LaFerrari , FXX-K Fiat X1/9 Ford GT and GT40 Gordon Murray Automotive T.33 , T.50 Ginetta F400 , G60 Honda Beat , NSX (NA1/NA2) , S660 , Honda Acty (2WD models only) Jaguar XJR-15 and XJ220 Koenigsegg CC8S , CCR , CCX , Agera , Regera , Jesko Lamborghini Miura , Countach , Diablo SV Lancia Stratos , Montecarlo , Rally 037 Lotus Europa , Esprit , Elise , Exige , Evora , Emira Maserati Merak , Bora , MC12 , MC20 Matra Djet , 530 , Bagheera , Murena McLaren F1 , MP4-12C , 570S , 650S , 720S , P1 , GT , Artura , Senna , Speedtail , Elva Mercedes-Benz CLK GTR MG F / MG TF Mitsubishi i and i-MiEV (Rear Mid-engine transversely-mounted / Rear-wheel drive) Opel Speedster Pagani Huayra , Zonda , Utopia Pontiac Fiero Porsche 550 , 914 , Boxster/Cayman , Carrera GT , 911 GT1 Renault 5 Turbo , Clio V6 Renault Sport Secma F16 Smart Roadster Tatra 602 Toyota MR2/MR-S Venturi Atlantique Volkswagen XL1 M4 layout – Rear Mid-engine / Four-wheel drive [ edit ] Main article: Mid-engine, four-wheel-drive layout These cars use mid-ship, four-wheel drive , with an engine between the axles. Ares Design Project1 Audi R8 BMW i8 Bugatti EB 110 , Veyron , Chiron , Divo , Centodieci Ford RS200 Ferrari SF90 Stradale Honda Acty (4WD versions only), NSX (NC1) , Z (1998-2002) Italdesign Zerouno Koenigsegg Gemera Lancia Delta S4 Lamborghini Aventador , Centenario , Sián FKP 37 , Countach LPI 800-4 , Diablo VT series , Gallardo , Murciélago , Reventón , Huracán , Sesto Elemento Mercedes-AMG ONE MG Metro 6R4 Panther Solo 2 Peugeot 205 Turbo 16 Porsche 918 Spyder Volvo L3314 Unimog UGN/405 FMF layout – Front Mid-engine / Front-wheel drive [ edit ] Front mid-engine position / Front-wheel drive Main article: Front-mid-engine, front-wheel-drive layout These cars are "mid-ship engined" vehicles, but they use front-wheel drive , with the engine in front of the driver. It is still treated as an FF layout, though, due to the engine's placement still being in the front of the car, contrary to the popular belief that the engine is placed in front of the rear axle with power transferred to the front wheels (an RMF layout). In most examples, the engine is longitudinally mounted rather than transversely as is common with FF cars. BSA Scout Citroën Traction Avant , DS , SM Nissan GT-R LM Nismo Renault 4 , 5 , 16 Saab Sonett Mk1 Honda Vigor / Inspire 1989–1995 Maserati Quattroporte II See also [ edit ] Front-engine design Rear-engine design References [ edit ] ^ "America on the Move" . 2016-11-02. v t e Car design Classification By size Micro Kei Subcompact / Supermini Family Compact Mid-size Full-size Custom Baja Bug Hot rod Lead sled Lowrider Sandrail T-bucket Luxury Compact executive Executive Personal Minivan / MPV Compact Leisure Mini SUV Compact Crossover (CUV) Mini Coupe SUV Sports Grand tourer Hot hatch Muscle Pony Sport compact Sports sedan Super Go-kart Other Antique Classic Economy Ute Van Vintage car EU A-segment B-segment C-segment D-segment E-segment F-segment J-segment M-segment S-segment Body styles 2+2 Baquet Barchetta Berlinetta Brougham Cabrio coach Cab over Cabriolet / Convertible / Drophead coupe Coupe Coupé de Ville / Sedanca de Ville Coupé utility Fastback Hardtop Hatchback Kammback Landaulet Liftback Limousine Microvan Minibus Multi-stop truck Notchback Panel van Phaeton Pickup truck Quad coupé Retractable hardtop Roadster / Spider / Spyder Runabout Saloon / Sedan Sedan delivery/Panel van Shooting brake Station wagon Targa top Torpedo Touring Town (Coupé de Ville) T-top Vis-à-vis Specialized vehicles All-terrain vehicle Amphibious Connected Driverless (autonomous) Dune buggy Go-kart Gyrocar Pedal car Personal rapid transit Police car Flying car Taxicab Tow truck Voiturette Propulsion Alternative fuel Autogas Biodiesel Biofuel Biogasoline Biogas Compressed natural gas Diesel Electric ( battery NEV ) Ethanol ( E85 ) Fossil fuel Fuel cell Fuel gas Natural gas Gasoline / petrol ( direct injection ) Homogeneous charge compression ignition Hybrid ( plug-in ) Hydrogen Internal combustion Liquid nitrogen Liquified petroleum gas Steam Drive wheels Front-wheel Rear-wheel Two-wheel Four-wheel Six-wheel Eight-wheel Ten-wheel Twelve-wheel Engine position Front Mid Rear Layout (engine / drive) Front-front Front mid-front Rear-front Front-rear Rear mid-rear Rear-rear Front-four-wheel Mid-four-wheel Rear-four-wheel Dual motor-four-wheel Individual wheel drive Engine configuration ( internal combustion ) Boxer Flat Four-stroke H-block Reciprocating Single-cylinder Straight Two-stroke V (Vee) W engine Wankel Portal Category Template:EC car classification Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mid-engine_design&oldid=1324253097 " Categories : Mid-engined vehicles Car layouts Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles that may contain original research from March 2018 All articles that may contain original research Articles needing additional references from September 2018 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2011