https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101823/spinner-handle-that-is-also-a-socket-extension

Spinner handle that is also a socket extension Ask Question Asked 3 days ago Modified 3 days ago Viewed 24 times 0 What is this style of spinner handle/socket screwdriver called? It looks like it can double as a socket extension. Source: What "Regular Everyday Tools" are in my Vehicle Emergency Toolkit? -  (YouTube 6:26) tools terminology socket Share Improve this question Follow asked Dec 26 at 16:18 User1974 1,703 1 1 gold badge 10 10 silver badges 25 25 bronze badges Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 1 It is typically called a socket driver. Yes, it could be used as an extension, or when you just can't get enough grip on the handle of the tool, you can put a ratchet on there and use it that way. Here's a Proto model found on Grainger : NOTE: No affiliation with either the tool brand or the website. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Dec 26 at 17:45 Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 ♦ 168k 32 32 gold badges 260 260 silver badges 515 515 bronze badges Add a comment | You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions tools terminology socket See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 7 How do I remove a pulley where I have no way of stopping it turning anti-clockwise, like I'm turning the nut? 7 Remove rounded manifold bolt 2 What uncommon tools are needed for a GMC Savanna 2500 engine replacement? 6 What is this pump-type nut fastener called and where is it useful? 4 Identifying right socket size 7 Basic Automotive Maintenance Repair - Compiling a Toolset 4 Do I need any special tools to replace a ball joint that appears to be able 'bolt on'? 4 What type of tool has more strength? CR-V (Chrome Vanadium) or those black color tools? 0 Female to female 1/2 " angle adapter 9 Tool for impacting screws — What is it called? Hot Network Questions Use some characters from the text font instead of the corresponding ones from mtpro2 Word: the beginning Two points on a cube with exactly three shortest paths connecting them Very weak performance of the rear disk brake Three fonts supports for polyglossia package? Is it philosophically coherent to treat memetic propagation as part of cognitive architecture rather than merely cultural transmission? How is the disc identifier found in .cda files computed? Is the lack of rigorous definition (or demonstration) of something, a clue of it being fundamental, rather than the opposite as it is usually though? Can I use a capacitor instead of an inductor in a fox-hole radio? How to confirm the original server IP behind a CDN? Is a commission considered a 'commercial use' under the CC-BY-NC? Would Vim ignore option 'display' if I have set 'nowrap'? an error with using a variable defined by pgfmathsetmacro in "let...in..." How to understand phrases with なら and ても? Finding an operator for 3 distinct values with bitwise operations What kind of knowledge did the demons have of Jesus that led him to silence them? Is the 2013 "photo" of a hydrogen atom with an electron orbiting real? How can I make sudo apt install warn me that I'm about to pull from Debian Unstable? Weird terminal formatting (Ubuntu 24.04) Is the portable DNA paternity testing kit in One Battle After Another based on a real-world device? What does the command 'recoverydiagnose' do? Can you please point to any references to bija mantras in any major shastras? Is a hyphen in "almost(-)<adjective>" compound modifier needed, optional, or wrong? Does it make sense to average standard errors like this? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.