https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Trivia_sections#"In_popular_culture"_and_"Cultural_references"_material

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia < Wikipedia:Manual of Style Wikipedia project page Several terms  redirect here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Village pump (miscellaneous) , Wikipedia:Miscellany for deletion , Wikipedia:Overcategorization#Miscellaneous categories , and Wikipedia:Trivial mentions . This guideline is a part of the English Wikipedia's Manual of Style . Editors should generally follow it, though exceptions may apply. Substantive edits to this page should reflect consensus . Shortcuts MOS:TRIVIA MOS:TRIVIA MOS:MISC MOS:MISC This page in a nutshell: An article should not contain a list of miscellaneous information. It is better to present things in an organized way. Manual of Style Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Organizing by subject Gender identity Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Superscripts and subscripts Text formatting Titles of works Images Captions Image placement Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists By topic area Arts Anime and manga Comics Film Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments Novels Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction See also: WikiProject style advice Regional Canada China (and Chinese) France (and French) Hawaii India Indonesia Ireland Japan Korea Malaysia Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore See also: Naming conventions (geographic names) WikiProject style advice Science and technology Chemistry Compound classes Chemicals References and external links Safety Structure drawing Computer science Mathematics Medicine Taxonomy See also: WikiProject style advice Other Blazons Cue sports ( Snooker ) Islam Latter Day Saints Legal Military history Trademarks See also: WikiProject style advice history legal and cultural religion and education sports and games Related guidelines Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Hatnotes Subpages Understandability Simplified Contents Tips v t e Avoid collections of miscellaneous facts or examples, since Wikipedia is not an indiscriminate collection of information . Whether presented in list format or embedded in regular prose, these risk becoming trivia magnets , which grow increasingly unwieldy as items are added. If such a collection already exists, [ 1 ] it should be considered temporary, until editors can sort out what is worth keeping; in some cases, it may be appropriate to move the content from the article itself to its talk page to allow this process to happen outside of mainspace . Content supported by a reliable source and which falls within the scope of Wikipedia could be integrated into a different section or article; non-encyclopedic content should simply be removed. Not all list sections are trivia sections [ edit ] Main page: Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Embedded lists In this guideline, the term "trivia section" refers to a section's content , not its name. A trivia section is one that contains a disorganized and unselective collection of facts or examples. A list with a relatively narrow theme is not necessarily trivia. For example, 1257 Samalas eruption contains a list of climate effects which that volcano eruption is believed to have had in different areas. In general, Wikipedia prefers prose , though a list format is sometimes the best way to present certain types of information. Any list of examples should have a solid connection to the article's subject. When there are numerous potential examples, it is usually best to avoid creating an open-ended formatted list, as this often leads to indiscriminate additions. If the examples cannot be meaningfully limited, but a few would help illustrate a point, select two or three key examples and present them within the article's running prose. If examples would not be helpful to illustrate a point, avoid giving any; for instance, the " Akira slide " has been reenacted many times, but this can be mentioned without listing any actual recreations of it. [ 2 ] "In popular culture" and "Cultural references" material [ edit ] Shortcuts MOS:POPCULT MOS:POPCULT MOS:CULTURALREFS MOS:CULTURALREFS Cultural references about the article's subject should not be included merely because they exist. Cultural aspects of the subject should be included only if they are supported by reliable secondary or tertiary sources that discuss the subject's cultural impact in some depth. The mere appearance of the subject in a film, song, video game, television show, or the like is insufficient; more generally, if sourcing for a given cultural reference is such that a given article would be able to do little more than briefly mention it, then it doesn't merit inclusion in that article at all. Example and discussion [ edit ] If you want to add a fact to the banana article stating that bananas are used as weapons in the Worms video game series , you should cite a reliable source focused on bananas—such as, to take a fictitious example, The Cultural Impact of the Banana by Ferdinand Fruitanalyser. This ensures relevance to the subject of the article. Citing sources specific to Worms , such as the games themselves as primary sources, or an article in PC Gamer magazine, is not sufficient. While these may verify the fact , they do not demonstrate the cultural significance of bananas in a manner proportionate to their overall treatment in reliable sources about bananas. It is the fact's relevance to the topic of bananas that matters, not its significance within the Worms games. Wikipedia's WP:PROPORTION policy requires articles to reflect the significance of aspects of a subject as presented in the broader body of literature on that subject. Minor aspects that do not receive significant attention in those sources should not be covered at all. Of course, sources such as PC Gamer or the Worms games themselves may well be appropriate for including the fact in the Worms (series) article, where they are directly relevant to that article's subject. This sourcing requirement is a minimum threshold for inclusion of cultural references. Consensus at the article level can determine whether particular references which meet this criteria should be included. How to avoid a cultural list becoming a trivia magnet [ edit ] Cultural references, such as for example all the film or TV adaptations of a true-life event, are sometimes grouped into a section labelled "In popular culture", "In the media", "Cultural references", "In fiction", etc. When not effectively curated, such a section can attract trivial references or otherwise expand in ways not compatible with Wikipedia policies such as what Wikipedia is not and neutral point of view . The risk can be reduced by ensuring that the list has clear, restrictive, and relevant criteria for inclusion, and that trivial entries are regularly cleared out. Sometimes, converting a list into regular prose can also discourage the addition of non-encyclopedic trivia. A good "Cultural references" section might, for example, set out a logically-presented overview (chronological and/or by medium) of the way in which the subject has been documented, featured, and portrayed in different media and genres, for various purposes and audiences. What to do [ edit ] Shortcuts WP:TRENDSBEFOREEXAMPLES WP:TRENDSBEFOREEXAMPLES WP:ANALYSISBEFOREEXAMPLES WP:ANALYSISBEFOREEXAMPLES A well-crafted article or section on a topic's cultural representation should be based on reliable sources that address the topic broadly. These sources may cover the entire topic (e.g. cats), its cultural representation (e.g. cats in fiction), or specific aspects (e.g. cats in 1960s Italian fiction). The primary aim should be to present an analysis of the topic's cultural representations as found in these sources. Editors must avoid introducing their own interpretations, as this would violate Wikipedia’s no original research policy . A limited number of examples can be valuable for illustrating and reinforcing this analysis, but they should complement, not replace, broader discussion. If examples are included, they should be drawn from sources that discuss the primary topic rather than being selected arbitrarily. Their inclusion should reflect their prominence in relevant literature. For an example of good practice, see Mars in fiction , a featured article . Other policies apply [ edit ] Trivia sections found in places such as IMDb sometimes contain speculation, rumor, invented "facts", or even libel . However, Wikipedia articles must never contain such material. Sensational claims not supported by a high-quality source may be removed immediately, even if the section remains in place. See also WP:No original research for why and how to avoid engaging in your own novel analysis of miscelleneous facts.  See WP:Verifiability and WP:Identifying reliable sources for referencing standards. See WP:Neutral point of view for principles to apply in balancing Wikipedia treatment of cultural references to the subject. Notes [ edit ] ^ In the early days of Wikipedia it was common for articles to include lists of miscellaneous information, often grouped into their own section. These sections were typically given names such as "Trivia", "Facts", "Miscellanea", or "Other information". For an example, see the John Lennon trivia section from December 10, 2005. This practice has long been disapproved. ^ As a demonstration, this old version of the " Akira slide" section in the Akira (1988 film) article contained a very lengthy list of examples, whereas this later version omits the list. See also [ edit ] Wikipedia:Handling trivia WP:IINFO – Wikipedia is not an indiscriminate collection of information (a Wikipedia policy) WP:"In popular culture" content (an essay ) Wikipedia:Reactions to... articles (an essay) WP:CARGO – an essay about the difference between compiling cultural references and writing an encyclopaedic article WP:UNWANTEDSECTION – a Wikipedia guideline: don't split off unwanted sections, remove them instead Category:Articles with trivia sections Template:In popular culture Template:Trivia List of Wikipedia articles with trivia sections Wikipedia:Fancruft Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not Fandom Wikipedia:Why was BFDI not on Wikipedia? v t e Handling miscellaneous information Policies and guidelines Trivia sections Wikipedia is not an indiscriminate collection of information Essays But for Napoleon, it was Tuesday Coatrack articles Discriminate vs indiscriminate information Example cruft Handling trivia "In popular culture" content Insignificant Listcruft Relevance of content Why was BFDI not on Wikipedia? WikiProjects Laundromat Popular culture Trivia Cleanup About essays Essay directory Avoid writing redundant essays Difference between policies, guidelines and essays Don't cite essays as if they were policy Quote your own essay Value of essays Wikipedia essays Category v t e Manual of Style Overview Contents Tips Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Organizing by subject area Gender identity Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Superscripts and subscripts Text formatting Titles of works Images Captions Image placement Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists By topic area Arts Anime and manga Comics Film Lyrics and poetry Novels Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction See also: WikiProject style advice Music Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments See also: WikiProject style advice History Blazons Military history See also: WikiProject style advice Legal and cultural Legal Trademarks See also: WikiProject style advice Regional Specific naming conventions Canada China (and Chinese) France (and French) Hawaii India Indonesia Ireland Japan Korea Malaysia Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore See also: WikiProject style advice Religion and education Islam Latter Day Saints See also: WikiProject style advice Science and technology Mathematics Medicine Chemistry Compound classes Chemicals References and external links Safety Structure drawing Computer science Taxonomy See also: WikiProject style advice Sports Cue sports Snooker See also: WikiProject style advice Related guidelines Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Hatnotes Subpages Understandability Search Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Trivia_sections&oldid=1330099664 " Category : Wikipedia Manual of Style (layout) Hidden categories: Pages using sidebar with the child parameter Articles with trivia sections