https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Tesla,_Inc.

Help From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikimedia Commons has media related to Tesla, Inc. . The main article for this category is Tesla, Inc. . Subcategories This category has the following 4 subcategories, out of 4 total. F Tesla factories (13 P) P Tesla, Inc. people (31 P) T Tesla, Inc.-related lists (3 P) V Tesla vehicles (14 P, 1 F) Pages in category "Tesla, Inc." The following 47 pages are in this category, out of  47 total. This list may not reflect recent changes . Tesla, Inc. * History of Tesla, Inc. A Anti–Elon Musk bumper stickers List of Tesla Autopilot crashes Tesla Autopilot Tesla Autopilot hardware C Criticism of Tesla, Inc. D Tesla US dealership disputes Diaz v. Tesla, Inc. DogeQuest Tesla Dojo E List of Easter eggs in Tesla products G Giga Press Tesla Automation H Handicar Hibar Systems I International Rights Advocates v. Apple, Microsoft, Dell, Tesla L 2025 Las Vegas Cybertruck explosion List of predictions for autonomous Tesla vehicles by Elon Musk Ludicrous: The Unvarnished Story of Tesla Motors M Maffei v. Palkon Maxwell Technologies Megacasting Tesla Megapack Trump–Musk feud Protests against Elon Musk N Edward Niedermeyer North American Charging Standard O Optimus (robot) P Power Play: Tesla, Elon Musk, and the Bet of the Century Tesla Powerpack Tesla Powerwall R Revenge of the Electric Car S SolarCity Tesla Supercharger T Tesla 4680 List of Tesla factories Tesla battery station Tesla Diner Tesla Energy Tesla Powershare Tesla Robotaxi Tesla Takedown 2025 Tesla vandalism List of lawsuits involving Tesla, Inc. TSLAQ U Tesla and trade unions Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Category:Tesla,_Inc.&oldid=1276241690 " Categories : Multinational companies headquartered in the United States Companies based in Palo Alto, California Technology companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Luxury motor vehicle manufacturers Car manufacturers of the United States Electric vehicle manufacturers of the United States Battery electric vehicle manufacturers Motor vehicle manufacturers based in California Manufacturing companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area Manufacturing companies based in Austin, Texas Elon Musk American brands Hidden categories: Commons category link from Wikidata Wikipedia categories named after vehicle manufacturing companies of the United States