https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Automotive_engineering

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This is the talk page for discussing improvements to the Automotive engineering article. This is not a forum for general discussion of the subject of the article. Put new text under old text. Click here to start a new topic. New to Wikipedia? Welcome! Learn to edit ; get help . Assume good faith Be polite and avoid personal attacks Be welcoming to newcomers Seek dispute resolution if needed Article policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Find sources: Google ( books · news · scholar · free images · WP refs ) · FENS · JSTOR · TWL This level-5 vital article is rated Start-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to the following WikiProjects : Automobiles High‑importance Cars portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Automobiles , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of automobiles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Automobiles Wikipedia:WikiProject Automobiles Template:WikiProject Automobiles Automobile High This article has been rated as High-importance on the project's importance scale . Engineering Mid‑importance Engineering portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Engineering , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of engineering on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Engineering Wikipedia:WikiProject Engineering Template:WikiProject Engineering Engineering Mid This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale . Business Low‑importance Business portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Business , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of business articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Business Wikipedia:WikiProject Business Template:WikiProject Business WikiProject Business Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . Vehicle Engineering [ edit ] Vehicle engineering is a sub-genre, of harmless dupes who spend most of their time organising drives and hiring cars. Typically it is a job given to ambitious graduates who are better at brown-nosing than real engineering. (?)-- Altermike 15:48, 6 May 2007 (UTC) [ reply ] Obviously vandalism, which I removed the same day that it added. -- Athol Mullen 23:59, 6 May 2007 (UTC) [ reply ] Mechanical engineering bias [ edit ] The article is based almost exclusively on the mechanical aspects of design only. A significant proportion of the value of a vehicle is in the electronics and associated software. The main product differentiators nowadays relate not just to mechanical styling, but to the electrics, asasand associated applications. Vehicles can be made to look attractive in different ways, but the feature sets have become more and more significant. PD ( talk ) 22:22, 22 November 2007 (UTC) [ reply ] So extend it. Greglocock ( talk ) 01:08, 23 November 2007 (UTC) [ reply ] General article cleanup tag [ edit ] I added the general article cleanup tag because I believe the article would benefit greatly from some revisions and additions. I am not an expert on automotive engineering, so I am not necessarily the man for the job. I will, however, do what I can to clarify and improve the article. I will make usage, spelling, and punctuation corrections as I find them. Any help would be greatly appreciated. wingman358 05:21, 6 August 2007 (UTC) [ reply ] Career path [ edit ] Could someone with experience in the matter please add a write up, or some information on how someone could pursue a career in automotive engineering? I.E what classes one should take, what major to focus in, or where to go after schooling? —The preceding unsigned comment was added by Eman3b ( talk • contribs ) 16:43, August 21, 2007 (UTC). In the first instance most automotive engineers will get a full engineering degree (not technology) typically in automotive, mechanical or electrical engineering. In the USA this means that the course should be ABET accredited. Before, or while they are at university they should find internships in automotive OEMs or Tier 1 suppliers. Greglocock 00:35, 22 August 2007 (UTC) [ reply ] Three paths? [ edit ] "Broadly speaking, automotive engineers are separated into three main streams: product engineering, development engineering and manufacturing engineering."
Is anyone really conscious of a divide between development and product? Greg Locock ( talk ) 11:28, 31 August 2008 (UTC) [ reply ] Banana Event? [ edit ] The 'shift quality' paragraph mentions something apparently called an "automatic transmission banana event". A Google search for "banana event" shows almost exclusively copies of the very same paragraph and no explanation whatsoever. If this is some sort of automotive engineering term, I think it deserves some elaboration, because this aerospace engineer has no idea what it means. —Preceding unsigned comment added by 146.140.250.198 ( talk ) 11:58, 5 August 2010 (UTC) [ reply ] This electrical engineer has never heard of an "automatic transmission banana event" either.  This should be either clarified or removed. Kevin Holzer ( talk ) 17:23, 25 August 2011 (UTC) [ reply ] Blacklisted Links Found on Automotive engineering [ edit ] Cyberbot II has detected links on Automotive engineering which have been added to the blacklist, either globally or locally. Links tend to be blacklisted because they have a history of being spammed or are highly inappropriate for Wikipedia. The addition will be logged at one of these locations: local or global If you believe the specific link should be exempt from the blacklist, you may request that it is white-listed . Alternatively, you may request that the link is removed from or altered on the blacklist locally or globally .
When requesting whitelisting, be sure to supply the link to be whitelisted and wrap the link in nowiki tags.
Please do not remove the tag until the issue is resolved. You may set the invisible parameter to "true" whilst requests to white-list are being processed. Should you require any help with this process, please ask at the help desk . Below is a list of links that were found on the main page: http://www.sgs.com/en/Automotive/Electrical-Components/Batteries/Battery-Management-Systems/Functional-Safety.aspx Triggered by \bsgs\.com\b on the local blacklist If you would like me to provide more information on the talk page, contact User:Cyberpower678 and ask him to program me with more info. From your friendly hard working bot.— cyberbot II Talk to my owner :Online 15:12, 1 April 2015 (UTC) [ reply ] The modern automotive product engineering process [ edit ] I think this section is a good idea but it is a bit hopeless at the moment, being based on some rather one eyed view of the world. In particular running two parallel Vs is incredibly bad practice, you need one V with loops. As for developing your vehicle after J1, that's called recalls. Greglocock ( talk ) 03:37, 21 June 2016 (UTC) [ reply ] Hi Greglocock , thanks for your comments! Always nice to have another eye on the world :-) 
1) In essence you are right about the V's. You need loops, but in practice you also have interconnected layers (between mechanical development, software, controls). That is what I meant. I think maybe the design-in-V for automotive deserves a separate page? If it needs to be decribed properly, it becomes very lengthy.
2) Continue development in product use: I did not refer to recalls after discrete product delivery. I was rather referring to the fact that it can be expected that vehicles will make part of the internet-of-things. They will get automatic updates to keep them behaving optimal, even if the environment changes. Today, that is still not very widespread practice, but automotive companies start to foresee this in their processes.
3) I have more studies that state numbers on the increasing importance of mechatronics. But as those types of numbers will be very dependent on the type of vehicle the manufacturer makes, I propose to delete them and make a more generic statement Thank you again, and kind regards, BartVanLierde ( talk ) 10:00, 21 June 2016 (UTC) [ reply ] Construction, agricultural and armoured vehicles. [ edit ] Are these normally considered branches of automotive engineering? · · · Peter Southwood (talk) : 11:07, 8 November 2022 (UTC) [ reply ] Armored vehicles definitely are, and Ford used to make tractors. Greglocock ( talk ) 20:54, 8 November 2022 (UTC) [ reply ] It is requested that an image or photograph of Automotive engineering be included in this article to improve its quality . Please replace this template with a more specific media request template where possible. The Free Image Search Tool or Openverse Creative Commons Search may be able to locate suitable images on Flickr and other websites. Upload Article upliftment/ creation [ edit ] Article improvement [ edit ] Hello fellow editors! I feel one of the key article related to engineering, Automotive engineering needs a good revision and copy edit. I would love to help in the process as much as viable but being a civil engineering student, I am unknown of some key terms. In addition, i see the need of forming a new article Automobile engineering much famous in Asian countries including Nepal and India to flourish the information regarding the subject and make the area of study open to fellow readers. Franked2004 ( talk ) 19:34, 16 November 2023 (UTC) [ reply ] Wiki Education assignment: Information Literacy and Scholarly Discourse [ edit ] This article was the subject of a Wiki Education Foundation-supported course assignment, between 3 June 2024 and 29 July 2024 . Further details are available on the course page . Student editor(s): AshtonEdwards ( article contribs ). — Assignment last updated by Ashlie.k.hood ( talk ) 17:06, 28 July 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Automotive_engineering&oldid=1313595427 " Categories : Start-Class level-5 vital articles Wikipedia level-5 vital articles in Technology Start-Class vital articles in Technology Start-Class Automobile articles High-importance Automobile articles Start-Class Engineering articles Mid-importance Engineering articles WikiProject Engineering articles Start-Class WikiProject Business articles Low-importance WikiProject Business articles WikiProject Business articles Wikipedia requested images of engineering subjects Hidden category: All Wikipedia vital articles