https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69644249/china-auto-market-nevs-top-50-percent-sales

Geely Nearly everything about the Chinese auto industry is staggering, from the sheer size of it to its growing global reach. It’s the world’s largest car producer, with 31.4 million units sold in 2024 (26.3 million on the domestic scene, 5.86 million exports). This is approximately twice the size of US auto sales including exports (15.9 million) last year. And US exports (many of them from non-US companies with American plants) totaled only 2.5 million vehicles. China’s auto shows (in Guangzhou, Beijing, and Shanghai, the latter two biennial) are flourishing, with hundreds of new models introduced annually (mainly EVs) as US shows struggle. Related Story Ford Electrifies the Bronco in China China’s share of global “New Energy Vehicles” (NEVs, a category that includes battery electrics, plug-in hybrids, and fuel-cells) rose to 68% in 2025 through October, said the China Passenger Car Association. That’s up from 64.8% in 2023. While NEVs rule inside China, the country’s automakers maintain a profitable business around the world with gas models they can’t sell domestically, Reuters reports . Ignoring the growing behemoth that is the Chinese auto industry or trying to make it go away with tariffs would seem to be short-sighted. It’s the elephant in the room, and it was addressed by the Automotive Futures Group at the 19th annual Inside China conference, held November 19 on the University of Michigan campus and to an online audience. Anadolu // Getty Images A BYD Han DM-i on display at the Guangzhou auto show this week. China’s auto future is electric. Bruce Belzowski, managing director of Automotive Futures and the conference moderator, said that NEVs exceeded 50% of domestic sales this year. In October, they were 51.6% of all vehicles sold in China. China’s bestseller at the moment is the BYD Song, followed by the Tesla Model Y and the Geely Geome, Belzowski said. The electric BYD Song Plus, offered both as a battery car and a PHEV and updated in 2023, was the country’s first NEV to reach a million in sales. Western countries have had trouble offering the affordable EVs with good range that consumers clearly want, but the Song Plus battery electric sells for $21,000 in China and has 375 miles of range. (To be fair, that range number would probably be lower by any US EPA measure.) The Song Plus is exported to Europe as the BYD Seal U. “In north America we’ve seen US exports drop off, and the tariffs are the death knell.” The entry-level Geely Geome is the Panda Mini EV (seen at the top), designed for domestic urban driving, and range is only 124 miles, but the price is an astonishing $6,850. The tiny Mini EV might not fly as a US entry with highway speeds barely capable, but Geely has larger electric cars in the Geome range. Speaker Ilaria Mazzocco is deputy director and a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). “China has growing importance as an exporter of cars,” she said. “It’s the world’s leading exporter now, surpassing Japan, Germany and South Korea. EVs are a big chunk of that. In north America we’ve seen US exports drop off, and the tariffs are the death knell.” NurPhoto // Getty Images Volkswagen EVs awaiting export from China. Chinese automakers—and by extension, the Chinese government—have clearly targeted Europe as a relatively wealthy and non-tariff-happy export market. “Exports mainly go to Asia and Europe,” Mazzocco said. “The EU used to have an export surplus to China, but that’s changed completely with the delivery there of a lot of Chinese-made vehicles. We haven’t seen the ICE peak in Chinese exports yet, and emerging markets are not yet a significant market for Chinese EVs. The biggest exporters from China are BYD, Tesla, and SAIC. BYD became the biggest exporter in 2024.” Western brands producing in China, including Mercedes, BMW, Volkswagen, and Stellantis, are “a big chunk” of the made-in-China EVs sold in Europe, Mazzocco said. “China has become the world’s NEV Walmart and it should be respected.” “China was generations behind in ICE engine development, and NEVs were an opportunity to get ahead,” said speaker Zhenhong Lin, head of the Energy and Carbon Decision group at South China University of Technology, and a former scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the U.S. “China’s auto industry has avoided making major popular mistakes, but risks of sub-optimality remain. China’s leaders used policy to motivate young companies such as BYD with government support. China has become the world’s NEV Walmart and it should be respected.” Several factors aid in the automotive electrification of China, Lin said, including cheap electricity but high gas prices, cleaner air imperatives, and policy that makes it much easier to get an EV licensed and on the road. “Getting an ICE plate is successful only 9.2% of the time, but NEVs qualify for free plates in a month,” he said. Wuling General Motors sells more electric Wuling Hongguangs (seen in second-generation form) through a joint venture in China than it does EVs in the US. Lin made the case for urban EVs with smaller batteries. “Do we really need electric vehicles with such long driving ranges?” he asked. “We don’t have to have megawatt charging everywhere.” Lin cited the success of an even cheaper Chinese mini EV, the $6,200 (after some price increases) Wuling Hongguang from the SAIC-GM-Wuling joint venture. The 27-horsepower car passed 1.1 million units sold in early 2023, and it’s now the bestselling EV in China. Ironically, General Motors sold 31,612 EVs of all models in the US during the first quarter of 2025, but in China during that period its joint venture sold more than 87,000 Wuling Hongguang Mini EVs. Related Story This Is China’s Answer to the Tesla Model Y All this is not to say that China’s auto industry doesn’t face problems. Experts agree there are just too many automakers producing cars there now, approximately 150 active brands. According to The Wire China , “China’s EV industry is producing more cars than it can sell domestically, and this ‘overcapacity’ will flood international markets with low-priced vehicles.” Not to mention having the effect of stimulating the ongoing and often vicious price wars on the domestic market, and killing off any number of nameplates. CNN reported in September, “[H]undreds of brands have gone under in a brutal race to the bottom over the past few years…The Chinese government has long dealt out subsidies and other support for EV makers—part of a strategy that helped catapult the country to its position as the largest EV market globally and spur growth in the world’s second-largest economy. Relentless price wars have ensued, depleting profits and straining carmakers and suppliers.” “China’s NEV market is highly competitive,” Lin said, with some understatement. Quality control has long been a big issue for Chinese cars, but during a webinar December 4, Consumer Reports Jake Fisher said in response to an Autoweek question, “We haven’t seen any large problems with cars made in China and sold in the US. Of course, Chinese cars are going to get better—they will improve, no question. There’s a lot of technology in their vehicles, and their quality control will get better as they gain experience.” Jim Motavalli Contributing Editor Jim Motavalli is an auto writer and author (nine books) who contributes to Autoweek and Barron’s Mansion Global. He has written two books on electric cars, Forward Drive (2000) and High Voltage (2010), and hosts the Plugging In podcast. Motavalli’s writing has appeared in the New York Times, CBS Moneywatch, Car Talk at NPR, Forbes, US News and World Report, Sierra Magazine, Audubon, and many more. In his spare time, he reviews books and jazz.