https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Society_for_Engineering_Education

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia US professional organization for engineering education This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article relies largely or entirely on a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources . Find sources: "American Society for Engineering Education" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2012 ) This article relies excessively on references to primary sources . Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources . Find sources: "American Society for Engineering Education" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject , potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral . Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent sources . ( December 2016 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations . Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged , redirected , or deleted . Find sources: "American Society for Engineering Education" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( July 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) American Society for Engineering Education Founded 1893 Type Professional organization Focus Engineering education Area served Worldwide Method Conferences, publications Key people Stephanie Adams, President Website www .asee .org The American Society for Engineering Education ( ASEE ) is a non-profit member association, founded in 1893, dedicated to promoting and improving engineering and engineering technology education. The purpose of ASEE is the advancement of education in all of its functions which pertain to engineering and allied branches of science and technology, including the processes of teaching and learning, counseling, research, extension services and public relations. ASEE administers the engineering technology honor society Tau Alpha Pi . History [ edit ] A full reading of the history of ASEE can be found in a 1993 centennial article in the Journal of Engineering Education. [ 1 ] Founded initially as the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education (SPEE) in 1893, the society was created at a time of great growth in American higher education. In 1862, Congress passed the Morrill Land-Grant Act , which provided money for states to establish public institutions of higher education. These institutions focused on providing practical skills, especially "for the benefit of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts". As a result of increasingly available higher education, more Americans started entering the workforce with advanced training in applied fields of knowledge. However, they often lacked grounding in the science and engineering principles underlying this practical knowledge. After a generation of students had passed through these new public universities, professors of engineering began to question whether they should adopt a more rigorous approach to teaching the fundamentals of their field. Ultimately, they concluded that engineering curricula should stress fundamental scientific and mathematical principles, not hands-on apprenticeship experiences. To organize support for this approach to engineering education, SPEE was formed in the midst of the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair. Known as the World's Columbian Exposition , this event heralded the promise of science and engineering by introducing many Americans, for example, to the wonders of electricity. Emerging out of the Fair’s World Engineering Congress, SPEE members dedicated themselves to improving engineering education at the classroom level. Over its history, the society has put out several reports on the subject, such as the Mann Report (1907), the Wickenden Study (1920s), and the Grinter Report (1955). [ citation needed ] From 1929 to 1930, the society's president was Robert I. Rees , a retired US Army brigadier general and executive with AT&T. [ 2 ] During World War II , the federal government started to place more emphasis on research, prompting SPEE to form the Engineering College Research Association (ECRA), which was more concerned with research than SPEE had ever been. The ECRA spoke for most engineering researchers, sought federal funds, and collected and published information on academic engineering research. Colonel and University Dean Blake R. Van Leer was the chairman and oversaw several committees during this process. [ 3 ] After the war, the desire to integrate the less research-oriented SPEE with the ECRA resulted in the disbanding of SPEE and the formation of ASEE in 1946. [ citation needed ] ASEE was a volunteer-run organization through the 1950s. In 1961, ASEE established a staff headquarters in Washington, DC , and undertook a more activist posture. However, through the 1960s, the Vietnam War and social unrest, in general, made the mood on many campuses anti-technology, anti-business, and anti-establishment. In the 1960s and 1970s, ASEE presidents Merritt Williams and George Hawkins reorganized ASEE to better represent its members and return its focus to teaching. As a result of this new focus, ASEE began to administer several teaching-related government contracts, including NASA's summer faculty fellowships and the Defense Department 's Civil Defense Summer Institutes and Fellowships. ASEE administered over ten government contracts, including the prestigious National Science Foundation 's Graduate Research Fellowship Program until 2019. [ citation needed ] Another result of the renewed emphasis on teaching was ASEE’s initiative for recruiting minorities and women into engineering. ASEE created the Black Engineering College Development program which used industry funding to upgrade engineering faculty in traditionally black colleges and to develop public information on these schools. ASEE also received several grants in the 1970s to research the status of women and American Indians and develop programs to attract more of these students to enter engineering. Since then, ASEE has continued to release studies on the subject in its Journal of Engineering Education, and has created divisions specifically devoted to developing programs and research in this area. [ 4 ] Publications [ edit ] ASEE produces many publications on the topic of engineering education, including the general-interest Prism , a monthly magazine covering the pervasive role of engineering in the world, the journals Journal of Engineering Education and Advances in Engineering Education, peer-reviewed journals covering research in engineering education, Profiles of Engineering and Technology Colleges , providing data on engineering colleges and universities, and the eGFI: Engineering, Go For It! magazine and associated website, designed to attract high school students and their parents and teachers to engineering. [ 5 ] Prism [ edit ] The magazine reports about cutting-edge technology and other important trends in engineering education, including: New instructional methods Innovative curricula Lifelong learning Research opportunities, trends, and developments Education and research projects with government and industry K-12 outreach activities that encourage youth to pursue studies and careers in engineering. Journal of Engineering Education [ edit ] Main article: Journal of Engineering Education The Journal of Engineering Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal published quarterly in partnership with a global community of engineering education societies and associations. The journal is a founding member of the International Federation of Engineering Education Societies . Advances in Engineering Education [ edit ] Advances in Engineering Education covers engineering education practice, especially the creative use of multimedia. Profiles of Engineering and Engineering Technology Colleges [ edit ] This directory provides profiles of United States and Canadian schools offering undergraduate and graduate engineering, as well as engineering technology programs with the intent of preparing prospective students for their future education in engineering. Computers in Education [ edit ] Computers in Education ( ISSN 1069-3769 ) is an academic journal covering all aspects of computation in education . It is published by the Northeast Consortium for Engineering Education on behalf of the Computers in Education Division of the American Society for Engineering Education. Presidents since 2000 [ edit ] 2000-2001 - Wallace T. Fowler [ 6 ] 2001-2002 - Gerald S. Jakubowski 2002-2003 - Eugene M. DeLoatch 2003-2004 - Duane L. Abata 2004-2005 - Sherra E. Kerns 2005-2006 - Ronald Barr 2006-2007 - David Wormley 2007-2008 - Jim Melsa 2008-2009 - Sarah Rajala 2009-2010 - J.P. Moshen 2010-2011 - Renata Engel 2011-2012 - Don Giddens 2012-2013 - Walter Buchanan 2013-2014 - Kenneth Galloway 2014-2015 - Nicholas Altiero 2015-2016 - Joe Rencis 2016-2017 - Louis Martin-Vega 2017-2018 - Bevlee Watford 2018-2019 - Stephanie Farrell 2019-2020 - Stephanie G. Adams 2020-2021 - Sheryl Sorby 2021-2022 - Adrienne Minerick 2022-2023 - Jenna Carpenter 2023-2024 - Doug Tougaw 2024-2025 - Grant Crawford 2025-2026 - Christi Luks Awards [ edit ] ASEE annually recognizes the outstanding accomplishments of engineering and engineering technology educators through the ASEE awards program. By their commitment to their profession, desire to further the Society's mission, and participation in civic and community affairs, ASEE award winners exemplify the best in engineering and engineering technology education. [ 7 ] Current awards [ edit ] Frederick J. Berger Award Chester F. Carlson Award Frederick Emmons Terman Award Isadore T. Davis Award for Excellence in Collaboration of Engineering Education and Industry DuPont Minorities in Engineering Award John L. Imhoff Global Excellence Award for Industrial Engineering Education Sharon Keillor Award for Women in Engineering Education Benjamin Garver Lamme Award ASEE Lifetime Achievement Award in Engineering Education James H. McGraw Award Curtis W. McGraw Research Award [ 8 ] Meriam / Wiley Distinguished Author Award Fred Merryfield Design Award National Engineering Economy Teaching Excellence Award National Outstanding Teaching Award Robert G. Quinn Award William Elgin Wickenden Award Former awards [ edit ] George Westinghouse Award (1946-1999) Conferences [ edit ] ASEE and its members organize a number of conferences, meetings, and workshops, foremost among them the ASEE Annual Conference. Other events include regional member meetings, professional-interest focused conferences, and K-12 teacher training. [ 9 ] Fellowships [ edit ] ASEE administers a number of fellowship and research opportunities with funding provided by federal agencies including the Department of Defense (DOD), NASA , and the National Science Foundation (NSF). These range from programs that provide summer internships for high school students to research programs for faculty members during the summer or while on sabbatical. Programs include undergraduate and graduate research support and postdoctoral research programs for recent PhDs at government and industrial research facilities. ASEE provides support tasks that include outreach and promotion activities, application processing support, application review activities, and administration of stipend and tuition payments for program participants. See also [ edit ] Engineering education in the United States Ira Osborn Baker References [ edit ] ^ "Striving for Balance: A Hundred Years of the American Society for Engineering Education." ^ Institute for Research In Biography (1935). Who's Who Among Association Executives . New York: J. J. Little and Ives Company. p. 445 – via Google Books . ^ "The Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education - Seventh Annual Meetings of the Southeastern Section - University of Louisiana and Tulane University" (PDF) . May 3–4, 1940. ^ ASEE Divisions ^ ASEE Publications ^ ASEE History Archived 2012-11-02 at the Wayback Machine ^ ASEE Awards ^ "Engineering Research Council - Curtis W. McGraw Research Award" . ASEE . Archived from the original on 2012-05-31. ^ ASEE Conferences External links [ edit ] Official website Triangle Coalition Membership Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF GND National United States Czech Republic 2 Spain Norway Israel Academics CiNii People Trove Other IdRef Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=American_Society_for_Engineering_Education&oldid=1314729450 " Categories : American Society for Engineering Education Engineering organizations 1893 establishments in Washington, D.C. Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from October 2012 All articles needing additional references Articles lacking reliable references from October 2012 All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from December 2016 Articles with topics of unclear notability from July 2020 All articles with topics of unclear notability Organization articles with topics of unclear notability Articles with multiple maintenance issues Pages using infobox mapframe with missing coordinates All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012