https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knox_Box

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wall-mounted safe for emergency access keys A Knox vault in an academic building A Knox KeySecure, attached inside the cab of a fire engine , holds a high-security key to open KnoxBox key boxes in the area. A Knox Box is a small, wall-mounted safe that holds building keys for fire departments , emergency medical services , and sometimes police to retrieve in emergency situations. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] The term "Knox-Box" is a brand name for such products produced by the American company Knox Associates, which does business as The Knox Company. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] The Knox Box is part of a line of security-related products marketed as the Knox Rapid Access System. [ 5 ] Local fire departments hold master keys to all Knox Boxes in their response area, enabling them to quickly enter buildings in their area without having to force entry or find individual keys held in deposit at the station. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] Sometimes the Knox Master Key is stored in a key retention device such as Sentralok or KeySecure. Knox Master Key retention devices provide accountability on access to the key. KeySecure records an audit trail of when the key is accessed while Sentralok requires a dispatcher to release the key with DTMF tones. Both Sentralok and KeySecure are also branded products of the Knox Company. A Knox Box can cut fire losses for building owners since firefighters can enter buildings without breaking doors or windows. It can also reduce the potential of a firefighter being injured forcing entry. The disadvantage of the system is that it provides a single point of failure for the security of many buildings. If the key to a district's Knox Box is stolen or copied, a thief can enter any building in the area that has a Knox Box. All Knox commercial boxes have a standard tamper switch which can be wired to the building's fire alarm control panel to sound a supervisory alert if the box is opened. The keys for Knox KeySecure are the same throughout a district (the extent of which depends on the district). At the February 2013 RSA Conference , a researcher publicized a possible exploit, claiming that he had successfully ordered a box, disassembled it, and used the information from disassembling the lock cylinder to create his own master key. [ 8 ] See also [ edit ] Real-estate lock box –  a device with a similar purpose used by real estate agents References [ edit ] ^ "Fire Department Key Box Installation (Knox Box) – Steps to Get Yours" . Sandy Spring Volunteer Fire Department . Retrieved 2020-02-07 . [ dead link ] ^ "Knox Box" . City of Cudahy, Wisconsin . Retrieved 2020-02-07 . ^ "KNOX-BOX Trademark of KNOX ASSOCIATES, INC. - Serial Number 74079619 - Alter" . ^ "Knox Associates Inc - Company Profile and News" . Bloomberg News . ^ Knox Company website ^ Kohlstedt, Kurt. "Knox Boxes to the Rescue: In Case of Emergency, Do Not Break Glass" . 99% Invisible . Retrieved 2020-02-07 . ^ "The Knox Box Requirements" . City of Atlanta, Georgia . Archived from the original on 2020-05-05 . Retrieved 2020-02-07 . ^ Finkle, Jim (2013-03-01). "Security expert warns fire department lockboxes can be hacked" . Reuters . Retrieved 2020-02-07 . External links [ edit ] Knox Company website v t e Locks , locksmithing , lock picking , and security alarms Fundamental concepts Access control Authentication Key control Key duplication Key relevance Master keying Password Physical security Rekeying Lock hardware Bitting Interchangeable core Key blank Key code Key retainer Lockrod Lockset Bored cylindrical lock Mortise lock Rim lock Single-point locking Three-point locking Keys Berlin key Car key Keychain Skeleton key Smart key Mechanical locks Warded lock Pin tumbler lock Disc tumbler lock Lever tumbler lock Magnetic keyed lock Padlock Combination lock Rotary combination lock Time-delay combination locks Time lock Tubular pin tumbler lock Wafer tumbler lock Electronic locks Electromagnetic lock Electronic lock Electric strike Keycard lock Other lock types Bicycle lock Bramah lock Chubb detector lock Child safety lock Kensington Security Slot Latch Luggage lock Power door locks Protector lock Real-estate lock box Steering-wheel lock The Club Lock picking Lock bumping Locksport Slim Jim Snap gun Door hardware Dead bolt Door chain Door closer Door frame Door furniture Door handle Door security Doorstop Hinge Night latch Emergency access/exit Crash bar Electromagnetic door holder Emergency exit Emergency light Exit control lock Exit sign Knox Box Security alarms Alarm device Alarm monitoring center Car alarm Card reader Closed-circuit television Door loop Dual loop Fingerprint scanner Glass break detector Heat detector Key switch Keypad Miniature snap-action switch Motion detector Occupancy sensor Passive infrared sensor (PIR) Perimeter intrusion detection Photoelectric sensor Piezo switch Pressure switch Proximity card Reed switch Tripwire Ultrasonic transducer Vandal-resistant switch Water detector Window security Miscellaneous Glossary of locksmithing terms John M. Mossman Lock Museum Key to the City Lock Museum Lock Museum of America Musée de la Serrure Puzzle lock Category:Locksmithing Keys Locks Book This emergency services –related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Knox_Box&oldid=1298127412 " Categories : Firefighting equipment Physical security Security technology Emergency services stubs Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from August 2022 Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All stub articles