https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Force_Protection_Inc

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Force Protection Inc ) Force Protection, Inc. Company type Division Industry automotive industry military vehicle industry Founded 1996 ; 29 years ago ( 1996 ) , in San Diego, California Founder Frank Kavanaugh Defunct 19 December 2011 Headquarters Ladson, South Carolina Key people Frank Kavanaugh ( chairman ) Products mine- and blast- protected vehicles Number of employees over 1000 [ 1 ] Subsidiaries Force Protection Europe Website www.gdls.com Force Protection, Inc. was a manufacturer of ballistic- and blast-protected vehicles from the United States which have been used in Iraq , Afghanistan , Kosovo and other hot spots around the world. The company was acquired by General Dynamics in 2011. Company [ edit ] The company traces its roots to Sonic Jet Performance, Inc., a California speed boat company founded in 1997. When the boat business hit tough times after the September 11  attacks , a new investor, Frank Kavanaugh, stepped in and looked to alter the direction of the business. Kavanaugh financed and secured the rights to a new line of products in support of the company's Mission to Protect and Save Lives. Around that time, the team identified an insolvent company in South Carolina called Technical Solutions, building a prototype of a mine-resistant vehicle the 'Buffalo' and attempting to build a smaller vehicle the Cougar/Tempest MRAP (Mine Resistant Ambush Protected). Technical Solutions was struggling and required a new strategy and additional resources.  The products were designed using commercial components, and utilized a strategy to allow them to be rapidly rebuilt in the field. Kavanaugh, the company chairman and largest investor, rebranded the company as 'Force Protection', and added rapid design capability, a focus on product quality, large scale production, and technical talent including the addition of Dr. Vernon Joynt, an internationally recognized blast expert. [ 2 ] Over a 3-year period, the new management team retooled the vehicles and developed the production capability of the business to almost $1.3 billion in annual sales - by integrating high-quality US automotive components with an innovative and effective blast resistant chassis. The heavily armored trucks featured a V-hull design that deflected underbody blasts away from the passenger compartment, and with  Joynt's expertise the products were enhanced to address side-blast from IEDs (Improvised Explosive Devices) that had become a primary cause of injury and death for soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The base designs secured from  Mechem ( South African government ) resulted in two U.S. models: the Buffalo, a huge, mine-clearing truck, and the Cougar, which was smaller and more versatile, and through the company's research and development efforts with Joynt several innovations and improvements such as the Cheetah, and spaced armor . Force Protection initially struggled with its first small MRAP contracts in 2002 through 2005. At first the company had less than a dozen people on its early production line. At times the prototype approach took five weeks to build one Cougar. The United States Department of Defense fined Force Protection more than $1.5 million for initial delivery delays. Kavanaugh focused on moving from a prototype production environment to sustainable volume production methods. [ 1 ] The team overcame these issues, developed agreements with other defense industry manufacturers such as Armor Holdings and BAE Systems , as well as a joint venture company with General Dynamics ("Force Dynamics"), to merge Force Protection's proprietary designs with the manufacturing capacity necessary to meet increasing demand. Force Protection received several contracts as part of the MRAP program, supplying blast resistant vehicles to American forces in Iraq, but with Kavanaugh's departure in 2007 the remaining team lost focus and chose not to introduce an innovative JLTV category vehicle known as Cheetah.  This led ultimately to the sale of the company to General Dynamics as orders were increasingly placed with rival companies. [ 3 ] Product Line [ edit ] Cheetah – Thirteen Cheetah prototypes were produced in 2005 and available in 2006 & 2007. Intended for urban operations, reconnaissance , and forward command and control, no contracts were signed for the Cheetah. Cougar – The Cougar is a medium-sized mine -protected vehicle for command and control, artillery prime mover, recovery and ambulance duty.  The Cougar has been in service with a number of armed forces since 2002. Cougar H 4×4 can carry 4 troops and an EOD robot. Cougar HE 6×6 can carry up to 12 troops. Buffalo – The Buffalo is designed principally for route clearing activities, asset protection, urban weapons systems, and command and control.  The Buffalo has been in service with a number of armed forces since 2003 SPECTRE – The SPECTRE light vehicle (formerly JAMMA) prototype. Offered to SOCOM in 2012, no contracts were signed. Ocelot – The Ocelot, which is designed and built in the United Kingdom by Force Protection Europe , is a light protected patrol vehicle (LPPV) ordered in 2010 to replace the UK military's Snatch Land Rover . [ 4 ] See also [ edit ] ILAV References [ edit ] ^ a b Eisler, Peter (2007-10-02). "The truck the Pentagon wants and the firm that makes it" . USA Today . Archived from the original on 2007-10-18. ^ Raz, Guy (May 18, 2007). "New Mine-Resistant Vehicles Aimed at Foiling IEDs" . All Things Considered . NPR . Retrieved December 22, 2023 . ^ More MRAPs: Navistar’s MaxxPro Maintains the Pole Position - Defense Industry Daily ^ "Force Protection Europe" . Force Protection. Archived from the original on 2010-07-01. External links [ edit ] General Dynamics Land Systems - Force Protection website Archived 2015-10-02 at the Wayback Machine Yahoo! - Force Protection Inc. Company Profile Extensive article from the USA Today about Force Protection Inc. v t e Automotive industry in the United States Automotive industry Economy of the United States Transportation in the United States Vehicle manufacturers and brands Current ( list ) AGCO Challenger Tractor Massey Ferguson AM General Anteros Coachworks Amp Electric Vehicles Arcimoto Armour Group ATK motorcycles Autocar Blue Bird Callaway Cars Caterpillar Inc. Czinger Chenowth Racing Products Environmental Performance Vehicles Equus Automotive Forest River Champion Bus Collins ElDorado National Glaval Bus Starcraft Bus Ford Lincoln SVT General Dynamics Land Systems General Motors Buick Cadillac Cadillac V series Chevrolet Chevrolet Performance GMC Gillig Growler Manufacturing and Engineering Harley-Davidson Ingersoll Rand Club Car HDT Global HME International Motors IC Bus John Deere Karma Automotive Laffite Lenco Industries Lockheed Martin Lucid Motors Mack Trucks Millennium Luxury Coaches Morgan Olson Motor Coach Industries Oshkosh Pierce Paccar Kenworth Peterbilt Panoz Phoenix Motorcars Polaris Industries Global Electric Motorcars Indian Victory REV Group Fleetwood Holiday Rambler Laymor Wheeled Coach Rezvani Motors Rivian Scuderia Cameron Glickenhaus SSC North America Superformance Telo Tesla Textron Arctic Cat E-Z-Go Cushman Trans Tech Ultimaster VIA Motors VLF Automotive Xos, Inc. Zero Motorcycles Foreign subsidiaries BMW Daimler Truck Honda Acura Hyundai Motor Group Hyundai Kia Mazda Mercedes-Benz Mitsubishi Nissan Infiniti Seres Group Seres Stellantis 1 Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram Subaru Toyota Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing Volkswagen Defunct / former 2 Allis-Chalmers American Austin American Electric American LaFrance American Motors Hudson Essex Terraplane Nash Rambler Armor Armored Auburn Aurica Autoette Avanti Avery BMC Boulder Electric Vehicle Carbon Motors Corporation Checker Motors Corporation Clydesdale Motor Truck Company Coda 2 Commonwealth Cord Case CNH Global Cycle-Scoot DeLorean Diamond-Star Duesenberg Durant Flint Locomobile Mason Rugby Star Eagle Bus Excalibur Fiberfab Fitch Four Drive Fisker Automotive Fisker Coachbuild Force Protection Ford Continental Edsel Mercury FMC 2 General Motors Cartercar Elmore GM Diesel Geo LaSalle Marquette McLaughlin Oakland Oldsmobile Pontiac Saturn Scripps-Booth Sheridan Viking Yellow Coach Goshen Coach Green GreenTech Grumman Henney International Harvester Jeffery Kaiser-Frazer Allstate Frazer Henry J Kaiser Willys Local Marathon Marmon Roosevelt Marvel Matbro Mercer Monaco Coach Mosler MotoCzysz Muntz New United North American Bus Industries Oliver Farm Equipment Packard Peerless Pierce-Arrow Proterra Sebring Vanguard Stellantis Eagle Plymouth Sterling Studebaker Erskine Rockne Stutz Scion Twentieth Century United Defense VPG Visionary VL White Wildfire ZAP Zimmer Concept and pre-production Alpha Motor Corporation Aptera Motors Bollinger Motors Canoo Commuter Cars Elio Motors Faraday Future Fisker Inc Lordstown Motors Myers Motors Nikola Slate Auto Trion Supercars Factories Active BMW Spartanburg Chrysler (list) Ford (list) General Motors (list) Honda (list) Hyundai (Alabama) Hyundai Metaplant (Georgia) Kia Motors Manufacturing Georgia Mercedes-Benz (Alabama) Subaru (Indiana) Tesla (list) Volkswagen (Chattanooga) Defunct Chrysler (list) Ford (list) General Motors (list) Packard Volkswagen (Westmoreland) Auto component makers and performance car modders Allison American Expedition Vehicles Aptiv BFGoodrich BorgWarner Callaway Cars Caterpillar Cummins Brammo Detroit Diesel Eaton Firestone General Tire Goodyear Cooper Tire & Rubber Company Hennessey Ingersoll Rand Legacy Lingenfelter Nexteer Remy International Saleen Shelby American SRT Timken Uniroyal Torrington Visteon Design studios Calty Design Research Designworks Rezvani Automotive Designs Wheego Electric Cars By state Massachusetts Related topics AAA Chicago Auto Show Interstate Highway System List of automobiles manufactured in the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration New York International Auto Show North American International Auto Show SAE International 1 Non-U.S. based parent company that owns subsidiaries headquartered in U.S. 2 Company still exists but is no longer in the automotive manufacturing business " Big 3 " in bold Category Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Force_Protection,_Inc.&oldid=1321495948 " Categories : Companies based in South Carolina Former defense companies of the United States Military vehicle manufacturers Hidden category: Webarchive template wayback links