https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_multiple_unit

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Electric train with no locomotive For the autohyponymically named Queensland Rail class, see Electric multiple unit (Queensland Rail) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Electric multiple unit" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( October 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A 6-car Siemens Nexas EMU arrives at Flinders Street station on the Upfield service in Melbourne , Australia. A DART 8500 class commuter EMU at Howth Junction railway station, Ireland. An electric multiple unit or EMU is a multiple-unit train consisting of self-propelled carriages using electricity as the motive power. An EMU requires no separate locomotive , as electric traction motors are incorporated within one or a number of the carriages. An EMU is usually formed of two or more semi-permanently coupled carriages. However, electrically powered single-unit railcars are also generally classed as EMUs. The vast majority of EMUs are passenger trains but versions also exist for carrying mail. EMUs are popular on intercity, commuter, and suburban rail networks around the world due to their fast acceleration and pollution-free operation, [ 1 ] and are used on most rapid-transit systems. Being quieter than diesel multiple units (DMUs) and locomotive -hauled trains, EMUs can operate later at night and more frequently without disturbing nearby residents. In addition, tunnel design for EMU trains is simpler as no provision is needed for exhausting fumes, although retrofitting existing limited-clearance tunnels to accommodate the extra equipment needed to transmit electric power to the train can be difficult. History [ edit ] This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. ( October 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A Liverpool Overhead Railway carriage in the Museum of Liverpool . The first EMUs in 1893. The prototype unit of JNR 201 series on public display at Harajuku Station in Tokyo , 13 May 1979. Next to it, a Yamanote Line 's 103 series train can be seen passing through Multiple unit train control was first used in the 1890s. The Liverpool Overhead Railway opened in 1893 with two-car electric multiple units, [ 2 ] controllers in cabs at both ends directly controlling the traction current to motors on both cars. [ 3 ] The multiple unit traction control system was developed by Frank Sprague and first applied and tested on the South Side Elevated Railroad (now part of the Chicago 'L' ) in 1897. In 1895, derived from his company's invention and production of direct current elevator control systems, Frank Sprague invented a multiple unit controller for electric train operation. This accelerated the construction of electric traction railways and trolley systems worldwide. Each car of the train has its own traction motors: by means of motor control relays in each car energized by train-line wires from the front car all of the traction motors in the train are controlled in unison. As technology improved with more compact and reliable electrical systems becoming available, EMUs became more common and supplanted locomotive hauled stock on many networks. This process was accelerated on crowded networks with frequent trains, as the operational advantages in using EMUs outweighed the initial cost. Types [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( October 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A 3rd-generation MEMU train produced by RCF and BHEL ( India ) Metro-North Railroad M8 married pairs in Port Chester , New York The cars that form a complete EMU set can usually be separated by function into four types: power car, motor car, driving car, and trailer car.  Each car can have more than one function, such as a motor-driving car or power-driving car. A power car carries the necessary equipment to draw power from the electrified infrastructure , such as pickup shoes for third rail systems and pantographs for overhead systems , and transformers . Motor cars carry the traction motors to move the train, and are often combined with the power car to avoid high-voltage inter-car connections. Driving cars are similar to a cab car , containing a driver's cab for controlling the train.  An EMU will usually have two driving cars at its outer ends. These can have gangway connections to provide more operational flexibility, along with convenience for passengers. Trailer cars are any cars (sometimes semi-permanently coupled) that carry little or no traction or power related equipment, and are similar to passenger cars in a locomotive-hauled train. Coupled BR Class 350 EMUs on the lines outside Crewe Heritage Centre . Note the gangway connection on the driving car. On third rail systems, the outer vehicles usually carry the pick up shoes with the motor vehicles receiving the current via intra-unit connections . This helps to avoid 'gapping' events where the unit is not in contact with the third rail and needs rescuing. For modern EMUs that operate on AC overhead systems, the traction motors have often moved from the power car to separate motor cars. The power car retains the transformer and sends the required energy via connectors to the motor cars. This helps to distribute weight along the length of the EMU and reduces the maximum axle load and track access/maintenance costs. This is not a consideration with DC powered sets as no transformer is required and any other conversion equipment is lighter. The majority of EMUs are set up as twin /"married pair" units or longer sets. In addition to the traction motors, the ancillary equipment (air compressor and tanks, batteries and charging equipment, traction power and control equipment, etc.) are shared between the cars in the set. Since no car can operate independently, such sets are only split at maintenance facilities. For longer length EMUs (8+ cars) the unit will often have duplicate power, traction & braking systems in two halves of the set, providing redundancy for increased weight and cost. Advantages of married pair or longer sets include weight and cost savings over single-unit cars (due to reducing the ancillary equipment required per set) while allowing multiple cars to be powered, unlike a motor-trailer combination. Each EMU has only two control cabs, located at the outer ends of the set. This saves space and expense over a cab at both ends of each car and provides more capacity. Disadvantages include a loss of operational flexibility, as trains must be multiples of a set length, and a failure on a single car could force removing the entire set from service. In rare circumstances EMUs can operate like locomotives, hauling push-pull sets of trailer coaches. The BR class 432 was an example of this, hauling TC trailer units on services on the South West Main Line . As high-speed trains [ edit ] A lineup of JR East Shinkansen trains in October 2012 APT-P (Class 370) at Carlisle, 1983 A China Railway High-speed CR400BF-G , in 2021 Some of the more famous electric multiple units in the world are high-speed trains, including the: 1964 - Shinkansen - Bullet train 1969 - Budd Metroliner - The retired New York–Washington Metroliner service, first operated by the Pennsylvania Railroad and later by Amtrak 1978 - British Rail Class 370 - APT-P 1988 - Fiat FS Class ETR 450 - Pendolino 2000 - Siemens Velaro - ICE 3 2007 - British Rail Class 395 / Hitachi A-train - Javelin. 2007 - China Railway CRH2 / E2 Series Shinkansen 2008 - China Railway CRH1 / Bombardier Regina 2008 - FS Class ETR 600 2015 - Frecciarossa 1000 / Alstom ( Bombardier Transportation ) Zefiro 2024 - KTX-Cheongryong Fuel cell development [ edit ] EMUs powered by fuel cells are under development. If successful, this would avoid the need for an overhead line or third rail . An example is Alstom ’s hydrogen -powered Coradia iLint . [ 4 ] The term hydrail has been coined for hydrogen-powered rail vehicles. [ citation needed ] Battery electric multiple unit [ edit ] Main article: Battery electric multiple unit A Stadler Flirt Akku NAH.SH BEMU operated in Germany Many battery electric multiple units are in operation around the world, with the take up being strong. Many are bi-modal taking energy from onboard battery banks and line pickups such as overhead wires or third rail. In most cases the batteries are charged via the electric pickup when operating on electric mode. [ citation needed ] Comparison with locomotives [ edit ] EMUs, when compared with electric locomotives , offer: [ 5 ] Higher acceleration, since there are more motors sharing the same load, more motors allows for a higher total motor power output Braking, including eddy current , rheostatic and/or regenerative braking , on multiple axles at once, greatly reducing wear on brake parts (as the wear can be distributed among more brakes) and allowing for faster braking (lower/reduced braking distances) Reduced axle loads, since the need for a heavy locomotive is eliminated; this in turn allows for simpler and cheaper structures that use less material (like bridges and viaducts) and lower structure maintenance costs Reduced ground vibrations, due to the above Lower adhesion coefficients for driving (powered) axles, due to lower weight on these axles; weight is not concentrated on a locomotive A higher degree of redundancy – performance is only minimally affected following the failure of a single motor or brake Higher seating capacity, since there is no locomotive; all cars can contain seats. Electric locomotives, when compared to EMUs, offer: Less electrical equipment per train resulting in lower train manufacturing and maintenance costs Allows for lower noise and vibration in passenger cars, since there are no motors or gearboxes on the bogies below the cars Greater flexibility in use, can haul freight and passenger services See also [ edit ] Electro-diesel multiple unit Diesel multiple unit Battery electric multiple unit British electric multiple units MEMU References [ edit ] ^ N. K. De (2004). Electric Drives . PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd. 8.4 "Electric traction", p.84. ISBN 9788120314924 . ^ "Liverpool Overhead Railway motor coach number 3, 1892" . National Museums Liverpool . Retrieved 2011-01-21 . This is one of the original motor coaches which has electric motors mounted beneath the floor, a driving cab at one end and third class accommodation with wooden seats. ^ Frank Sprague (18 January 1902). "Mr Sprague answers Mr Westinghouse" . The New York Times . Retrieved 16 June 2012 . ^ "What you need to know about Alstom's hydrogen-powered Coradia iLint – Global Rail News" . globalrailnews.com . 24 October 2017. ^ Hata, Hiroshi. "What Drives Electric Multiple Units?" (PDF) . Railway Technology Today . Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 November 2021 . Retrieved 13 March 2022 . External links [ edit ] Media related to Electric multiple units, motor coaches and railcars at Wikimedia Commons v t e Railway electrification Current collectors Bow collector Pantograph Trolley pole Contact shoe Power delivery Railway electrification Overhead line Third rail Fourth rail Ground-level power supply Stud contact system Conduit current collection Rolling stock Railway electric traction Power car Electric locomotive Electric multiple unit Electro-diesel locomotive Electro-diesel multiple unit Multi-system Rubber-tyred metro Power network Traction power network Traction substation Traction powerstation By country Australia Austria Estonia France Germany India Iran Japan Latvia Lithuania Malaysia New Zealand Norway timeline Poland Russia Former USSR Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom United States Lists Railway electrification systems Tram electrification systems Authority control databases : National United States Japan Czech Republic Poland Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electric_multiple_unit&oldid=1327039149 " Categories : Electric multiple units Multiple units Electric rail transport Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from December 2009 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from October 2025 All articles that may contain original research Articles needing additional references from October 2025 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2025 Commons category link is on Wikidata