https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suction

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Air pressure differential between two areas For other uses, see suction (medicine) and suction convention . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Suction" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( January 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( December 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Gasses or liquids that move along a pressure gradient can exert forces on objects. Suction is the day-to-day term for the movement of gases or liquids along a pressure gradient with the implication that the movement occurs because the lower pressure pulls the gas or liquid. However, the forces acting in this case do not originate from just the lower pressure side, but instead from the side of the higher pressure, as a reaction to the pressure difference. When the pressure in one part of a physical system is reduced relative to another, the fluid or gas in the higher pressure region will exert a force relative to the region of lowered pressure, referred to as pressure-gradient force . If all gas or fluid is removed the result is a perfect vacuum in which the pressure is zero. Hence, no negative pressure forces can be generated. Accordingly, from a physics point of view, the objects are not  pulled but pushed. Examples [ edit ] Pressure reduction may be static , as in a piston and cylinder arrangement, or dynamic , as in the case of a vacuum cleaner when air flow results in a reduced pressure region. When animals breathe , the diaphragm and muscles around the rib cage cause a change of volume in the lungs . The increased volume of the chest cavity decreases the pressure inside, creating an imbalance with the ambient air pressure, resulting in suction. Similarly, when a straw is used to suck a liquid from a glass into the mouth, the atmospheric pressure on the fluid in the glass pushes the liquid up through the straw along the pressure gradient. [ citation needed ] [ original research? ] A common semantic mistake in aviation accident reporting is describing people or objects as being 'sucked out' during rapid decompression events, when physically they are 'blown out' by the higher internal cabin pressure rushing toward the lower ambient pressure outside the plane — the opposite phenomenon to what happens when an object is placed too close to a running jet engine creating the risk of being sucked in. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] See also [ edit ] Look up suction in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Pump Vacuum pump Suction devices used in medicine Implosion Suction cup Suction cupping References [ edit ] ^ Quora. "There's No Suction In Space, Because Suction Is An Illusion" . Forbes . Retrieved 2024-01-14 . ^ "Why doesn't Earth's atmosphere escape into space?" . www.spacecentre.nz . Retrieved 2024-01-14 . ^ "NTSB Schedules Investigative Hearing on Boeing 737-9 MAX Door Plug Blowout" . www.ntsb.gov . Retrieved 2025-03-19 . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Suction&oldid=1319504855 " Categories : Physical quantities Units of pressure Vacuum Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from January 2024 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from December 2022 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2025 Articles that may contain original research from October 2025