https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTherm

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Communications protocol for central heating systems This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "OpenTherm" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) OpenTherm ( OT ) is a standard communications protocol used in central heating systems for the communication between central heating appliances and thermostatic controllers. [ 1 ] As a standard, OpenTherm is independent of any single manufacturer. A controller from one manufacturer can in principle be used to control a boiler from another. However, OpenTherm controllers and boilers do not always work properly together. The OpenTherm standard comprises a number of optional features and some devices may include manufacturer-specific features. The presence or absence of such features may impair compatibility with other OpenTherm devices. History [ edit ] OpenTherm Association Formation 1996 ; 29 years ago ( 1996 ) Headquarters Naarden , The Netherlands Website https://www.opentherm.eu/ OpenTherm was founded in 1996 because multiple manufacturers needed a simple-to-use communicating system between room controller and boiler. It had to run, like the existing controllers, over the existing two wires, not polarity sensitive, without the use of batteries . For one British pound , Honeywell sold the first specification to the OpenTherm Association in November 1996. [ citation needed ] Shortly after, the first products appeared on the market. By 2008 the Association had grown to around 42 members and has regularly updated and improved the specification. Furthermore, the Association is also active in lobbying for the interests of its members and is also present at exhibitions like the ISH ( Frankfurt ) and the Mostra Convegno ( Milan ). As of 2016 [update] , the association has 53 members from around the world. [ 2 ] OpenTherm appliances are mainly used in Europe. [ 3 ] Design [ edit ] Communication is digital and bi-directional between the controller (primary) and the boiler (secondary). Various commands and kinds of information can be transferred; however, the most basic command is to set the boiler's target water temperature. OpenTherm makes use of a traditional untwisted 2-wire cable between controller and boiler. The protocol is not polarity sensitive: wires can be swapped. [ 4 ] The maximum wiring length is 50 m up to maximum 2 x 5 ohm resistance. For backward compatibility with traditional switching thermostatic controllers, OpenTherm specified that if the two wires are connected together then the boiler will switch on. Due to the secondary supplying power over the two wires, the controller does not require its own power connection. [ 4 ] The primary sends out a 32-bit signal every second, to which the secondary sends an acknowledgement message: [ 4 ] 32-bit signal message components Number of bits 1 1 3 4 8 16 1 Description Start bit Parity bit Message type Reserved Data ID Data Stop bit Value 0 1 if total number of 1 bits is uneven, otherwise 0 0000 0 Multi Point to Point [ edit ] Specification 3.0 also describes how more than two devices can be connected by OpenTherm. Whilst OpenTherm is a point-to-point connection, an extra device (gateway) is added between the primary and the secondary. This gateway has 1 secondary and 1 (or more) primary interfaces. The gateway controls which data is passed to each secondary.
An application example is a room temperature controller connected to a heat recovery unit, which is connected to a boiler. The heat recovery unit is then functioning as gateway.
In another possible configuration, a thermostat or room controller is connected to a sequencer with further Opentherm interfaces connected to more than one boiler. The room controller can be a standard unit, since it only 'sees' one heat-producer. The sequencer includes additional software to increase or decrease the number of running boilers to match the actual heat demand. The sequencer also needs a sensor to measure the temperature of the combined output from the boilers and usually would also control a main circulation pump. What happens after a fault occurs (resequencing remaining units, passing fault messages through for display on the room controller, etc.) is also part of the sequencer functionality. (The hydraulic design of such a system must also take account of different combinations of boilers running at the same time: a Low Loss Header / Hydraulic Separator is usually included to combine the flows from the boilers.) Variants [ edit ] OpenTherm/Plus (OT/+) [ edit ] The two wires are used both to supply power to the controller and for bidirectional digital communication between the controller and the boiler. The minimum available power is 35 mW. When using OpenTherm Smart Power this can, by primary request, also be 136 mW (medium power) or 255 mW (high power). The controller transmits to the boiler by sending a Manchester-encoded sequence in the Voltage domain. The boiler transmits data back to the controller in the current domain. OpenTherm specifies a maximum communications interval of one second. The data in the communication packet is functionally specified and is called OpenTherm-ID (OT-ID). 256 OT-IDs are available, 128 are reserved for OEM use. The other 128 are reserved, 90 of them are functionally specified. (OT specification v3.0) OpenTherm/Light (OT/-) [ edit ] When OT/- is used the primary generates a PWM voltage signal, representing the boiler water temperature set point. The boiler current signal indicates the status of the boiler: error, no error. Due to the limited possibilities OT/- is rarely used . [ citation needed ] OpenTherm Smart Power [ edit ] On June 16, 2008, OpenTherm specification 3.0 was approved by the association. This version introduces OpenTherm Smart Power. The primary can request the secondary to change the available power to low, medium or high power. With this primary manufacturers can add more functionality to their products (backlight or extra sensors). Certification [ edit ] Manufacturers are allowed to market OpenTherm products when they comply with some rules of the OpenTherm association. Most importantly the manufacturer has to be an OpenTherm member, and the product must be tested by an independent testing body. By handing over the test report and a Declaration of Conformity to the association, the manufacturer is allowed to use the OpenTherm logo. See also [ edit ] Building automation HVAC HVAC control system KNX (standard) Programmable thermostat Radiator References [ edit ] ^ Wilamowski, Bogdan M.; Irwin, J. David (2018-10-03). Industrial Communication Systems . CRC Press. ISBN 978-1-351-83432-2 . ^ "Members OpenTherm Association" . OpenTherm . OpenTherm Association . Retrieved 28 February 2016 . ^ Zurawski, Richard (2017-12-19). Embedded Systems Handbook: Networked Embedded Systems . CRC Press. ISBN 978-1-4398-0762-0 . ^ a b c Buiting, Jan (2003). 308 Circuits . Elektor International Media. ISBN 978-0-905705-66-8 . External links [ edit ] Official website Protocol specification (v2.2) v t e Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning Fundamental concepts Air changes per hour (ACH) Bake-out Building envelope Convection Dilution Domestic energy consumption Enthalpy Fluid dynamics Gas compressor Heat pump and refrigeration cycle Heat transfer Humidity Infiltration Latent heat Noise control Outgassing Particulates Psychrometrics Sensible heat Stack effect Thermal comfort Thermal destratification Thermal mass Thermodynamics Vapour pressure of water Technology Absorption-compression heat pump Absorption refrigerator Air barrier Air conditioning Antifreeze Automobile air conditioning Autonomous building Building insulation materials Central heating Central solar heating Chilled beam Chilled water Constant air volume (CAV) Coolant Cross ventilation Dedicated outdoor air system (DOAS) Deep water source cooling Demand controlled ventilation (DCV) Displacement ventilation District cooling District heating Electric heating Energy recovery ventilation (ERV) Firestop Forced-air Forced-air gas Free cooling Heat recovery ventilation (HRV) Hybrid heat Hydronics Ice storage air conditioning Kitchen ventilation Mixed-mode ventilation Microgeneration Passive cooling Passive daytime radiative cooling Passive house Passive ventilation Radiant heating and cooling Radiant cooling Radiant heating Radon mitigation Refrigeration Renewable heat Room air distribution Solar air heat Solar combisystem Solar cooling Solar heating Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Underfloor air distribution Underfloor heating Vapor barrier Vapor-compression refrigeration (VCRS) Variable air volume (VAV) Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) Ventilation Water heat recycling Components Air conditioner inverter Air door Air filter Air handler Air ionizer Air-mixing plenum Air purifier Air source heat pump Attic fan Automatic balancing valve Back boiler Barrier pipe Blast damper Boiler Centrifugal fan Ceramic heater Chiller Condensate pump Condenser Condensing boiler Convection heater Compressor Cooling tower Damper Dehumidifier Duct Economizer Electrostatic precipitator Evaporative cooler Evaporator Exhaust hood Expansion tank Fan Fan coil unit Fan filter unit Fan heater Fire damper Fireplace Fireplace insert Freeze stat Flue Freon Fume hood Furnace Gas compressor Gas heater Gasoline heater Grease duct Grille Ground-coupled heat exchanger Ground source heat pump Heat exchanger Heat pipe Heat pump Heating film Heating system HEPA High efficiency glandless circulating pump High-pressure cut-off switch Humidifier Infrared heater Inverter compressor Kerosene heater Louver Mechanical room Oil heater Packaged terminal air conditioner Plenum space Pressurisation ductwork Process duct work Radiator Radiator reflector Recuperator Refrigerant Register Reversing valve Run-around coil Sail switch Scroll compressor Solar chimney Solar-assisted heat pump Space heater Smoke canopy Smoke damper Smoke exhaust ductwork Thermal expansion valve Thermal wheel Thermostatic radiator valve Trickle vent Trombe wall TurboSwing Turning vanes Ultra-low particulate air (ULPA) Whole-house fan Windcatcher Wood-burning stove Zone valve Measurement and control Air flow meter Aquastat BACnet Blower door Building automation Carbon dioxide sensor Clean air delivery rate (CADR) Control valve Gas detector Home energy monitor Humidistat HVAC control system Infrared thermometer Intelligent buildings LonWorks Minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) Normal temperature and pressure (NTP) OpenTherm Programmable communicating thermostat Programmable thermostat Psychrometrics Room temperature Smart thermostat Standard temperature and pressure (STP) Thermographic camera Thermostat Thermostatic radiator valve Professions, trades, and services Architectural acoustics Architectural engineering Architectural technologist Building services engineering Building information modeling (BIM) Deep energy retrofit Duct cleaning Duct leakage testing Environmental engineering Hydronic balancing Kitchen exhaust cleaning Mechanical engineering Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Mold growth, assessment, and remediation Refrigerant reclamation Testing, adjusting, balancing Industry organizations AHRI AMCA ASHRAE ASTM International BRE BSRIA CIBSE Institute of Refrigeration IIR LEED SMACNA UMC Health and safety Indoor air quality (IAQ) Passive smoking Sick building syndrome (SBS) Volatile organic compound (VOC) See also ASHRAE Handbook Building science Fireproofing Glossary of HVAC terms Warm Spaces World Refrigeration Day Template:Fire protection Template:Home automation Template:Solar energy v t e Automation protocols Process automation AS-i BSAP CC-Link Industrial Networks CIP CAN bus CANopen DeviceNet ControlNet DF-1 DirectNET EtherCAT Ethernet Global Data (EGD) Ethernet Powerlink EtherNet/IP Factory Instrumentation Protocol FINS FOUNDATION fieldbus H1 HSE GE SRTP HART Protocol Honeywell SDS HostLink INTERBUS IO-Link MECHATROLINK MelsecNet Modbus Optomux PROFIBUS PROFINET RAPIEnet SERCOS interface SERCOS III Sinec H1 SynqNet TTEthernet Industrial control system MTConnect OPC DA OPC HDA OPC UA Building automation 1-Wire BACnet BatiBUS C-Bus CEBus DALI DSI DyNet EnOcean EHS EIB FIP KNX LonTalk Modbus OpenTherm oBIX VSCP X10 xAP xPL Z-Wave Zigbee Power-system automation IEC 60870 IEC 60870-5 IEC 60870-6 DNP3 Factory Instrumentation Protocol IEC 61850 IEC 62351 Modbus PROFIBUS Automatic meter reading ANSI C12.18 IEC 61107 DLMS/IEC 62056 M-Bus Modbus Zigbee Automobile / Vehicle AFDX ARINC 429 CAN bus SAE J1939 NMEA 2000 FMS Factory Instrumentation Protocol FlexRay IEBus J1587 J1708 Keyword Protocol 2000 Unified Diagnostic Services LIN MOST SENT (SAE J2716) VAN Cyphal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=OpenTherm&oldid=1296046335 " Categories : Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning Home automation Residential heating Temperature control Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from February 2017 All articles needing additional references Pages using infobox mapframe with missing coordinates All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2016 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2016 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2012 Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia