https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chassis

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Load-bearing framework The CTC-2 chassis of an RCA CT-100 television A chassis ( US : / ˈ tʃ æ . s i / , [ 1 ] UK : / ˈ ʃ æ . s i / ; [ 2 ] plural chassis /- i z / from French châssis [ʃɑsi] ), is the load -bearing framework of a manufactured object, which structurally supports the object in its construction and function. An example of a chassis is a vehicle frame , the underpart of a motor vehicle , on which the body is mounted; if the running gear such as wheels and transmission, and sometimes even the driver's seat, are included, then the assembly is described as a rolling chassis . Examples [ edit ] Vehicles [ edit ] See also: Rolling chassis and Vehicle frame Motor vehicle chassis with its suspension, exhaust system, and steering box In the case of vehicles, the term rolling chassis means the frame plus the "running gear " like engine , transmission , drive shaft , differential , and suspension . The "rolling chassis" description originated from assembly production when an integrated chassis "rolled on its own tires" just before truck bodies were bolted to the frames near the end of the line. [ 3 ] An underbody (sometimes referred to as " coachwork "), which is usually not necessary for the integrity of the structure, is built on the chassis to complete the vehicle. For commercial vehicles , a rolling chassis consists of an assembly of all the essential parts of a truck without the body to be ready for operation on the road. [ 4 ] A car chassis will be different from one for commercial vehicles because of the heavier loads and constant work use. [ 5 ] Commercial vehicle manufacturers sell "chassis only", "cowl and chassis", as well as " chassis cab " versions that can be outfitted with specialized bodies. These include motor homes , fire engines , ambulances , box trucks , etc. In particular applications, such as school buses , a government agency like National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in the U.S. defines the design standards of chassis and body conversions. [ 6 ] An armoured fighting vehicle 's hull [ 7 ] serves as the chassis and comprises the bottom part of the AFV that includes the tracks , engine, driver's seat, and crew compartment. This describes the lower hull, although common usage might include the upper hull to mean the AFV without the turret . The hull serves as a basis for platforms on tanks , armoured personnel carriers , combat engineering vehicles , etc. In the intermodal trucking industry, a chassis is a type of semi-trailer onto which a cargo container can be mounted for road transport. Electronics [ edit ] Main article: Computer case An ATX computer case In an electronic device (such as a computer ), the chassis consists of a frame or other internal supporting structure on which the circuit boards and other electronics are mounted. [ 8 ] In some designs, such as older ENIAC sets, the chassis is mounted inside a heavy, rigid cabinet, while in other designs such as modern computer cases , lightweight covers or panels are attached to the chassis. The combination of chassis and outer covering is sometimes called an enclosure . Firearms [ edit ] See also: Rifle bedding The M2010 Enhanced Sniper Rifle , based on the bolt-action Remington 700 design but bedded inside an accurizing chassis. In firearms, the chassis is a bedding frame on long guns such as rifles to replace the traditionally wooden stock , for the purpose of better accurizing the gun. The chassis is usually made from hard metallic material such as aluminium alloy (and less frequently stainless steel , titanium alloy or recently magnesium alloy ) due to metals having superior stiffness and compressive strength compared with wood or synthetic polymer , which are commonly used in conventional rifle stocks. The chassis essentially functions as a more extensive pillar bedding, providing a metal-on-metal bearing surface that has reduced shifting potential under the stress of recoil . A barreled action bedded into a metal chassis would theoretically operate more consistently during repeated firing, resulting in better precision . With the increasing availability of CNC machining , chassis have become more affordable and sophisticated as well as gained increasing popularity as these types of chassis can be expanded to accommodate customizable "furniture" ( buttstock , pistol grip , etc.) and rail interface systems that provide mounting points for various accessories. See also [ edit ] Airframe Backbone chassis Body-on-frame Bogie Coachbuilder Locomotive frame Monocoque , construction from a structural shell instead of a structural frame Undercarriage (disambiguation) Underframe References [ edit ] ^ "The American Heritage Dictionary entry: chassis" . Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing . Retrieved 2017-05-21 . ^ "Chassis definition and meaning" . Collins English Dictionary . Retrieved 2017-05-21 . ^ Klier, Thomas H.; Rubenstein, James M. (2008). Who Really Made Your Car?: Restructuring and Geographic Change in the Auto Industry . W.E. Upjohn Institute. p. 273. ISBN 9780880993333 . Retrieved April 7, 2023 . ^ Association of Licensed Automobile Manufacturers (U.S.) (1922). Official Handbook of Automobiles . National Automobile Association. p. 180. OCLC 6360726 . Retrieved 10 September 2010 . ^ Sturmey, Henry (2 April 1908). "The Use of Unsuitable Vehicles" . Commercial Motor . Vol. 7, no. 160. pp. 146– 147 . Retrieved 10 September 2010 . ^ Grenzeback, Lance R.; Lin, Sandi; Meunier, Jacob (2005). Operational Differences and Similarities among the Motorcoach, School Bus, and Trucking Industries . Transportation Research Board. p. 13. ISBN 9780309088213 . Retrieved 10 September 2010 . ^ Starry p. 45, 79, 129, 143, 153, etc. ^ Khandpur, Raghbir Singh (2006). Troubleshooting Electronic Equipment . McGraw-Hill Professional. p. 45. ISBN 9780071477314 . Retrieved 10 September 2010 . Starry, Donn A. (2002). "Mounted Combat in Vietnam (Vietnam Studies)" (PDF) . Department of the Army . Washington, D.C. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 8, 2015 . Retrieved April 7, 2023 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chassis . Look up chassis in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. v t e Chassis control system Part of the Automobile series Suspension Anti-roll bar (sway bar) Axle Axle track Beam axle Camber angle Car handling Coil spring De Dion tube Double wishbone Hydrolastic ( Hydragas ) Hydropneumatic Independent suspension Leaf spring Live axle MacPherson strut Multi-link suspension Panhard rod Shock absorber Swing axle Toe angle Torsion bar Trailing arm Unsprung mass Watt's linkage Wheel alignment Wheelbase Steering Ackermann steering geometry Caster angle Kingpin Oversteer Power steering Rack and pinion Torque steering Understeer Brakes Automatic braking Anti-lock braking system Active rollover protection Brake bleeding Brake fade Brake fluid Brake lining Combined braking system Disc brake Drum brake Electric park brake Electronic brakeforce distribution Electronic stability control Engine braking Hydraulic brake Hydraulic fluid Inboard brake Parking brake Regenerative brake Vacuum servo Roadwheels Tires (Tyres) Alloy wheel Custom wheel Drive wheel Hubcap Outline of tires Rostyle wheel Spinner Whitewall tire Wire wheels Portal Category v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chassis&oldid=1328227507 " Categories : Automotive chassis types Vehicle technology Computer enclosure Carriages and mountings Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Pages with French IPA Commons category link from Wikidata