https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69663714/genesis-g90-savile-silver-paint-accidental-braking-recall

Marc Urbano | Car and Driver Genesis is recalling certain G90 sedans with Savile Silver paint, which can trick the cars into unnecessarily braking. The G90's front corner radars may reflect off the aluminum in the silver paint, and this can trigger the brakes by falsely detecting a vehicle entering the lane. Genesis says the issue can be fixed by sealing the front bumper beam. If you find yourself behind the wheel of a Genesis G90, you may be surprised by the luxury sedan unexpectedly hitting the brakes. However, that experience will only happen if the G90 is painted Savile Silver and its Highway Driving Assist semi-autonomous mode is activated. What gives? As it turns out, that specific paint color contains aluminum that can trick the sedan's front corner radars into thinking another car is entering their personal space, activating the automated braking system and causing confusion at best or possibly an accident at worst. For Sale Near You See all results for 2026 Genesis G90 for sale near 06385 According to documents filed with the NHTSA , Genesis says there have been 11 separate reports of this defect causing unnecessary braking. While no accidents or injuries were reported, Genesis wants to resolve the issue that it says could take place when HDA is activated at speeds below about 12 mph or at higher speeds when the system's Lane Change Assist tries to execute the maneuver that requires the driver to toggle the turn signal. Michael Simari | Car and Driver This G90 isn’t painted Savile Silver, but we couldn’t find a photo of one in that color. As a result, Genesis has issued a recall for all of the 483 G90 models that were painted Savile Silver. These include 2023 to 2026 models that were built from April 21, 2022, to October 13, 2025. The paint color's production was paused shortly thereafter, and it'll return to the lineup once Genesis completes the remedy, which involves sealing the front bumper beam. The car in these photos has a matte paint job that doesn't bother the G90's front radars, and neither do any of the other available colors. However, for those who drive a Savile Silver car, Genesis recommends not using the HDA function until the issue is fixed free of charge (even if the warranty has expired). The automaker says that it plans to notify dealers and owners by the end of January 2026. Related Stories Genesis Might Actually Produce This G90 Wagon 2023 Genesis G90 Tested: Luxury at Your Door Genesis G90: Review, Pricing, and Specs Eric Stafford Managing Editor, News Eric Stafford’s automobile addiction began before he could walk, and it has fueled his passion to write news, reviews, and more for Car and Driver since 2016. His aspiration growing up was to become a millionaire with a Jay Leno–like car collection. Apparently, getting rich is harder than social-media influencers make it seem, so he avoided financial success entirely to become an automotive journalist and drive new cars for a living. After earning a journalism degree at Central Michigan University and working at a daily newspaper, the years of basically burning money on failed project cars and lemon-flavored jalopies finally paid off when Car and Driver hired him. His garage currently includes a 2010 Acura RDX, a manual '97 Chevy Camaro Z/28, and a '90 Honda CRX Si.