https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_filter

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Device which removes solid particulates from the air "Air cleaner" redirects here. For a device which removes contaminants from the air in a room, see Air purifier . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Air filter" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( May 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Diagram of a HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) filter Reusable washable HVAC air filter A particulate air filter is a device composed of fibrous , or porous materials which removes particulates such as smoke , dust , pollen , mold , viruses and bacteria from the air . Filters containing an adsorbent or catalyst such as charcoal (carbon) may also remove odors and gaseous pollutants such as volatile organic compounds or ozone . [ 1 ] Air filters are used in applications where air quality is important, notably in building ventilation systems and in engines. Some buildings, as well as aircraft and other human-made environments (e.g., satellites , and Space Shuttles ) use foam, pleated paper, or spun fiberglass filter elements. Another method, air ionizers , use fibers or elements with a static electric charge, which attract dust particles. The air intakes of internal combustion engines and air compressors tend to use either paper , foam , or cotton filters. Oil bath filters have fallen out of favour aside from niche uses. The technology of air intake filters of gas turbines has improved significantly in recent years, due to improvements in the aerodynamics and fluid dynamics of the air-compressor part of the gas turbines. Do-it-yourself air cleaner are low-cost alternative to commercial portable air cleaners. [ 2 ] HEPA filters [ edit ] Main article: HEPA High efficiency particulate arrester (HEPA), [ 3 ] [ 4 ] originally called high-efficiency particulate absorber but also sometimes called high-efficiency particulate arresting or high-efficiency particulate arrestance, is a type of air filter. Filters meeting the HEPA standard have many applications, including use in clean rooms for IC fabrication, medical facilities, automobiles, aircraft and homes. The filter must satisfy certain standards of efficiency such as those set by the United States Department of Energy (DOE). Varying standards define what qualifies as a HEPA filter. The two most common standards require that an air filter must remove (from the air that passes through) 99.95% (European Standard) [ 5 ] or 99.97% (ASME standard) [ 6 ] of particles that have a size greater than or equal to 0.3 μm . Carbon filtering [ edit ] Main article: Carbon filtering Filters containing an adsorbent or catalyst such as charcoal (carbon) may also remove odors and gaseous pollutants such as volatile organic compounds or ozone . [ 7 ] Automotive cabin air filters [ edit ] The cabin air filter, also known in the United Kingdom as a pollen filter, is typically a pleated-paper filter that is placed in the outside-air intake for the vehicle's passenger compartment. Some of these filters are rectangular and similar in shape to the engine air filter. Others are uniquely shaped to fit the available space of particular vehicles' outside-air intakes. The first automaker to include a disposable filter to keep the ventilation system clean was the Nash Motors " Weather Eye ", introduced in 1940. [ 8 ] A reusable heater core filter was available as an optional accessory on Studebaker models beginning in 1959, including Studebaker Lark automobiles (1959-1966), Studebaker Gran Turismo Hawk automobiles (1962-1964) and Studebaker Champ trucks (1960-1964).  The filter was an aluminum frame containing an aluminum mesh and was located directly above the heater core. The filter was removed and installed from the engine compartment through a slot in the firewall.  A long, thin rubber seal plugged the slot when the filter was installed.  The filter could be vacuumed and washed prior to installation. Clogged or dirty cabin air filters can significantly reduce airflow from the cabin vents, as well as introduce allergens into the cabin air stream. Since the cabin air temperature depends upon the flow rate of the air passing through the heater core , the evaporator , or both, clogged filters can greatly reduce the effectiveness and performance of the vehicle's air conditioning and heating systems. [ 9 ] Some cabin air filters perform poorly, and some cabin air filter manufacturers do not print a minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) filter rating on their cabin air filters. [ citation needed ] Internal combustion engine air filters [ edit ] Used auto engine air filter, clean side Used auto engine air filter, dirty side Auto engine air filter clogged with dust and grime Low-temperature oxidation catalyst used to convert carbon monoxide to less toxic carbon dioxide at room temperature. It can also remove formaldehyde from the air . The combustion air filter prevents abrasive particulate matter from entering the engine's cylinders, where it would cause mechanical wear and oil contamination. Most fuel injected vehicles use a pleated paper filter element in the form of a flat panel. This filter is usually placed inside a plastic box connected to the throttle body with duct work. Older vehicles that use carburetors or throttle body fuel injection typically use a cylindrical air filter, usually between 100 millimetres (4 in) and 400 millimetres (16 in) in diameter. This is positioned above or beside the carburetor or throttle body, usually in a metal or plastic container which may incorporate ducting to provide cool and/or warm inlet air, and secured with a metal or plastic lid. The overall unit (filter and housing together) is called the air cleaner . Paper [ edit ] Main article: Filter paper Pleated paper filter elements are the nearly exclusive choice for automobile engine air cleaners, because they are efficient, easy to service, and cost-effective. The "paper" term is somewhat misleading, as the filter media are considerably different from papers used for writing or packaging, etc. There is a persistent belief among tuners , fomented by advertising for aftermarket non-paper replacement filters, that paper filters flow poorly and thus restrict engine performance. In fact, as long as a pleated-paper filter is sized appropriately for the airflow volumes encountered in a particular application, such filters present only trivial restriction to flow until the filter has  become significantly clogged with dirt. Construction equipment engines also use this. The reason is that the paper is bent in zig-zag shape, and the total area of the paper is very large, in the range of 50 times of the air opening. [ citation needed ] Foam [ edit ] Oil-wetted polyurethane foam elements are used in some aftermarket replacement automobile air filters. Foam was in the past widely used in air cleaners on small engines on lawnmowers and other power equipment, but automotive-type paper filter elements have largely supplanted oil-wetted foam in these applications. Foam filters are still commonly used on air compressors for air tools up to 5 horsepower (3.7 kW). Depending on the grade and thickness of foam employed, an oil-wetted foam filter element can offer minimal airflow restriction or very high dirt capacity, the latter property making foam filters a popular choice in off-road rallying and other motorsport applications where high levels of dust will be encountered. Due to the way dust is captured on foam filters, large amounts may be trapped without measurable change in airflow restriction. [ citation needed ] Cotton [ edit ] Oiled cotton gauze is employed in a growing number of aftermarket automotive air filters marketed as high-performance items. In the past, cotton gauze saw limited use in original-equipment automotive air filters. However, since the introduction of the Abarth SS versions, the Fiat subsidiary supplies cotton gauze air filters as OE filters. Stainless steel [ edit ] Stainless steel mesh is another example of medium which allow more air to pass through. 
Stainless steel mesh comes with different mesh counts, offering different filtration standards. 
In an extreme modified engine lacking in space for a cone based air filter, some will opt to install a simple stainless steel mesh over the turbo to ensure no particles enter the engine via the turbo. Oil bath [ edit ] An oil bath air cleaner consists of a sump containing a pool of oil, and an insert which is filled with fiber, mesh, foam, or another coarse filter media. The cleaner removes particles by adhering them to the oil-soaked filter media rather than traditional filtration, the openings in the filter media are much larger than the particles that are to be filtered. When the cleaner is assembled, the media-containing body of the insert sits a short distance above the surface of the oil pool. The rim of the insert overlaps the rim of the sump. This arrangement forms a labyrinthine path through which the air must travel in a series of U-turns: up through the gap between the rims of the insert and the sump, down through the gap between the outer wall of the insert and the inner wall of the sump, and up through the filter media in the body of the insert. This U-turn takes the air at high velocity across the surface of the oil pool. Larger and heavier dust and dirt particles in the air cannot make the turn due to their inertia , so they fall into the oil and settle to the bottom of the base bowl. Lighter and smaller particles stick to the filtration media in the insert, which is wetted by oil droplets aspirated there into by normal airflow. The constant aspiration of oil onto the filter media slowly carries most of the finer trapped particles downward and the oil drips back into the reservoir where the particles accumulate. Oil bath air cleaners were very widely used in automotive and small engine applications until the widespread industry adoption of the paper filter in the early 1960s. Such cleaners are still used in off-road equipment where very high levels of dust are encountered, for oil bath air cleaners can sequester a great deal of dirt relative to their overall size without loss of filtration efficiency or airflow. However, the liquid oil makes cleaning and servicing such air cleaners messy and inconvenient, they must be relatively large to avoid excessive restriction at high airflow rates, and they tend to increase exhaust emissions of unburned hydrocarbons due to oil aspiration when used on spark-ignition engines. [ citation needed ] Water bath [ edit ] In the early 20th century (about 1900 to 1930), water bath air cleaners were used in some applications (cars, trucks, tractors, and portable and stationary engines). They worked on roughly the same principles as oil bath air cleaners . For example, the original Fordson tractor had a water bath air cleaner. By the 1940s, oil bath designs had displaced water bath designs because of better filtering performance. [ 10 ] Bulk solids handling filters [ edit ] Bulk solids handling involves the transport of solids (mechanical transport, pneumatic transport) which may be in a powder form. Many industries are handling bulk solids (mining industries, chemical industries, food industries) which requires the treatment of air streams escaping the process so that fine particles are not emitted, for regulatory reasons or economical reasons (loss of materials). As a consequence, air filters are positioned at many places in the process, especially at the reception of pneumatic conveying lines [ 11 ] where the quantity of air is important and the load in fine particle quite important. Filters can also be placed at any point of air exchange in the process to avoid that pollutants enter the process, which is particularly true in pharmaceuticals and food industries. The physical phenomena involved in catching particles with a filter are mainly inertial and diffusional [ 12 ] Filter classes [ edit ] Under European normalization standards EN 779, the following filter classes were recognized: Usage Class Performance Performance test Particulate size approaching 100% retention Test Standard Coarse filters (used as Primary) G1 65% Average value >5 μm BS EN779 G2 65–80% Average value >5 μm BS EN779 G3 80–90% Average value >5 μm BS EN779 G4 90%– Average value >5 μm BS EN779 Fine filters (used as Secondary) M5 40–60% Average value >5 μm BS EN779 M6 60–80% Average value >2 μm BS EN779 F7 80–90% Average value >2 μm BS EN779 F8 90–95% Average value >1 μm BS EN779 F9 95%– Average value >1 μm BS EN779 Semi HEPA E10 85% Minimum value >1 μm BS EN1822 E11 95% Minimum value >0.5 μm BS EN1822 E12 99.5% Minimum value >0.5 μm BS EN1822 HEPA H13 99.95% Minimum value >0.3 μm BS EN1822 H14 99.995% Minimum value >0.3 μm BS EN1822 ULPA U15 99.9995% Minimum value >0.3 μm BS EN1822 U16 99.99995% Minimum value >0.3 μm BS EN1822 U17 99.999995% Minimum value >0.3 μm BS EN1822 European standard EN 779, on which the above table is based, remained in effect from 2012 to mid-2018, when it was replaced by ISO 16890. [ 13 ] See also [ edit ] Air purifier Clean Air Delivery Rate CityTrees Corsi–Rosenthal Box Cyclonic separation Dehumidifier Diesel particulate filter Dust collector Humidifier Impingement filter Indoor air quality Mechanical filter (respirator)#Filtration standards Nose filter Pocket filter Respirator Scrubber Smog tower Swan neck duct References [ edit ] ^ "California Environmental Protection Agency - Air Cleaning Devices for the Home, Frequently Asked Questions" (PDF) . California Environmental Protection Agency Air Resources Board . Retrieved 2016-12-14 . ^ Holder, Amara L.; Halliday, Hannah S.; Virtaranta, Larry (2022). "Impact of do-it-yourself air cleaner design on the reduction of simulated wildfire smoke in a controlled chamber environment" . Indoor Air . 32 (11) e13163. Bibcode : 2022InAir..3241.R1H . doi : 10.1111/ina.13163 . ISSN 1600-0668 . PMC 9828579 . PMID 36437679 . ^ HEPA Company glossary of terms Archived 2020-04-20 at the Wayback Machine ^ Originally High Efficiency Particulate Arrestment - see thefreedictionary.com ^ European Standard EN 1822-1:2009, "High efficiency air filters (EPA, HEPA and ULPA)", 2009 ^ American Society of Mechanical Engineers, ASME AG-1a–2004, "Addenda to ASME AG-1–2003 Code on Nuclear Air and Gas Treatment", 2004 ^ "California Environmental Protection Agency - Air Cleaning Devices for the Home, Frequently Asked Questions" (PDF) . California Environmental Protection Agency Air Resources Board . Retrieved 2016-12-14 . ^ Vwlarry (19 May 2009). "Nils Wahlberg and Nash - Salute To A Great Engineer And Unsung Automobiles" . ^ "Dirty cabin air filter symptoms" . FIRST BRANDS GROUP LLC . Retrieved 12 June 2024 . ^ Peter, Paul. "Isolier Konzept" . Retrieved 26 September 2022 . ^ "Air filtration - Dust collectors" . ^ "Solid Gas separation (cyclone - filtration)" . ^ ISO 16890-1:2016(en) Air filters for general ventilation — Part 1: Technical specifications, requirements and classification system based upon particulate matter efficiency (ePM) External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Air filters . v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category v t e Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning Fundamental concepts Air changes per hour (ACH) Bake-out Building envelope Convection Dilution Domestic energy consumption Enthalpy Fluid dynamics Gas compressor Heat pump and refrigeration cycle Heat transfer Humidity Infiltration Latent heat Noise control Outgassing Particulates Psychrometrics Sensible heat Stack effect Thermal comfort Thermal destratification Thermal mass Thermodynamics Vapour pressure of water Technology Absorption-compression heat pump Absorption refrigerator Air barrier Air conditioning Antifreeze Automobile air conditioning Autonomous building Building insulation materials Central heating Central solar heating Chilled beam Chilled water Constant air volume (CAV) Coolant Cross ventilation Dedicated outdoor air system (DOAS) Deep water source cooling Demand controlled ventilation (DCV) Displacement ventilation District cooling District heating Electric heating Energy recovery ventilation (ERV) Firestop Forced-air Forced-air gas Free cooling Heat recovery ventilation (HRV) Hybrid heat Hydronics Ice storage air conditioning Kitchen ventilation Mixed-mode ventilation Microgeneration Passive cooling Passive daytime radiative cooling Passive house Passive ventilation Radiant heating and cooling Radiant cooling Radiant heating Radon mitigation Refrigeration Renewable heat Room air distribution Solar air heat Solar combisystem Solar cooling Solar heating Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Underfloor air distribution Underfloor heating Vapor barrier Vapor-compression refrigeration (VCRS) Variable air volume (VAV) Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) Ventilation Water heat recycling Components Air conditioner inverter Air door Air filter Air handler Air ionizer Air-mixing plenum Air purifier Air source heat pump Attic fan Automatic balancing valve Back boiler Barrier pipe Blast damper Boiler Centrifugal fan Ceramic heater Chiller Condensate pump Condenser Condensing boiler Convection heater Compressor Cooling tower Damper Dehumidifier Duct Economizer Electrostatic precipitator Evaporative cooler Evaporator Exhaust hood Expansion tank Fan Fan coil unit Fan filter unit Fan heater Fire damper Fireplace Fireplace insert Freeze stat Flue Freon Fume hood Furnace Gas compressor Gas heater Gasoline heater Grease duct Grille Ground-coupled heat exchanger Ground source heat pump Heat exchanger Heat pipe Heat pump Heating film Heating system HEPA High efficiency glandless circulating pump High-pressure cut-off switch Humidifier Infrared heater Inverter compressor Kerosene heater Louver Mechanical room Oil heater Packaged terminal air conditioner Plenum space Pressurisation ductwork Process duct work Radiator Radiator reflector Recuperator Refrigerant Register Reversing valve Run-around coil Sail switch Scroll compressor Solar chimney Solar-assisted heat pump Space heater Smoke canopy Smoke damper Smoke exhaust ductwork Thermal expansion valve Thermal wheel Thermostatic radiator valve Trickle vent Trombe wall TurboSwing Turning vanes Ultra-low particulate air (ULPA) Whole-house fan Windcatcher Wood-burning stove Zone valve Measurement and control Air flow meter Aquastat BACnet Blower door Building automation Carbon dioxide sensor Clean air delivery rate (CADR) Control valve Gas detector Home energy monitor Humidistat HVAC control system Infrared thermometer Intelligent buildings LonWorks Minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) Normal temperature and pressure (NTP) OpenTherm Programmable communicating thermostat Programmable thermostat Psychrometrics Room temperature Smart thermostat Standard temperature and pressure (STP) Thermographic camera Thermostat Thermostatic radiator valve Professions, trades, and services Architectural acoustics Architectural engineering Architectural technologist Building services engineering Building information modeling (BIM) Deep energy retrofit Duct cleaning Duct leakage testing Environmental engineering Hydronic balancing Kitchen exhaust cleaning Mechanical engineering Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Mold growth, assessment, and remediation Refrigerant reclamation Testing, adjusting, balancing Industry organizations AHRI AMCA ASHRAE ASTM International BRE BSRIA CIBSE Institute of Refrigeration IIR LEED SMACNA UMC Health and safety Indoor air quality (IAQ) Passive smoking Sick building syndrome (SBS) Volatile organic compound (VOC) See also ASHRAE Handbook Building science Fireproofing Glossary of HVAC terms Warm Spaces World Refrigeration Day Template:Fire protection Template:Home automation Template:Solar energy Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Air_filter&oldid=1328033658 " Categories : Auto parts Air filters Particulate control Engine components Gas technologies Solid-gas separation Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from May 2009 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2024 Articles with unsourced statements from February 2025 Articles with unsourced statements from November 2007 Commons category link from Wikidata