https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rekeying

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Replacement of lock pins to allow usage of a new key For the cryptographic concept, see Rekeying (cryptography) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Rekeying" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Rekeying a lock is replacing the old lock pins with new lock pins. History [ edit ] Rekeying was first invented in 1836 by Solomon Andrews , a New Jersey locksmith. His lock had adjustable tumblers and keys, allowing the owner to rekey it at any time. Later in the 1850s, inventors Andrews and Newell patented removable tumblers which could be taken apart and scrambled. The keys had bits that were interchangeable, matching varying tumbler configurations. This arrangement later became the basis for combination locks . [ 1 ] Why is rekeying needed [ edit ] Locks are usually re keyed to build master-key systems, make a set of locks share a common key, or to eliminate compromised keys. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Sometimes worn pins are replaced with new pins if the old pins become too short to reach the shear-line. [ 5 ] The shear-line is the thin line shared by the lock plug and its cylindrical housing. If a pin sits flush with the circumference of the plug it will allow lock rotation. Lock cylinders use different length pins in different combinations to create relatively unique key bitting. Most keys have 5 cuts from bow to tip. If a key has 5 cuts, the lock has 5 pins. Different brand locks each vary in many small ways, this is most true when servicing them. Many manufacturers offer product-specific manuals. Information disclosed in manufacturer manuals is often otherwise difficult to find, as is locksmith material in general. Pin sets and sizes [ edit ] Pins are manufactured and numbered in the thousandths of an inch , based on the length of the pin. Typical sizes are .0025" (two and a half thousandths), .003" (three thousandths), .005" (five thousandths), or 0.010" (ten thousandths). A ten thousandths pin kit is rarely sold. [ 6 ] Lock manufacturers each use specific depth and spacing allowing organized master-key systems to be complex, large, and manageable. A standard pin kit offers the exact size variety needed. Using manufacturer depths permits easy keying, but often you must deviate slightly for optimum accuracy. Pin kits provide master- wafers, top- pins, and springs for a thorough cylinder rebuild. Replace any worn parts, rekey, lubricate, and reassemble. Check to see that the keys work well, check remaining customer keys if any and reinstall. Rekeying process [ edit ] To rekey a lock you have to first remove the lock cylinder from any housing it rests in. The lock cylinder must be disassembled, and the plug removed. Use a plug follower to avoid dropping master-wafers, top pins and springs. The plug has cylindrical chambers spaced according to manufacturer specifications. Pins are contained in these chambers where they are pushed down by springs or raised by a key. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Each cut sits under a chamber of its own, each pin sits on a cut of its own. Place the correct pins in each chamber, bringing the top of each new pin flush with the shear-line. Check the upper chambers using a master-follower for old unused master wafers and remove any. [ 7 ] If any springs are noticeably weak or the lock was especially dirty replace the springs. If the old pins are rounded from use or otherwise show excessive wear replace springs. Reinsert the plug taking care not to drop top pins into any unused chamber. Test key, make slight adjustments if needed and reassemble. Alternatives [ edit ] There are some systems, like InstaKey, that allow locks to be rekeyed by inserting and turning a specially designed key without removing cores or lock hardware. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] References [ edit ] ^ Phillips, Bill (2005). The Complete Book of Locks and Locksmithing (6th ed.). Chicago: McGraw-Hill Professional. p. 9. ISBN 0-07-144829-2 . ^ Martens, Robert (June 15, 2017). "Using the IoT to Increase Productivity" . securityinfowatch.com . Retrieved April 21, 2019 . ^ Crouch, Michelle. "21 Secrets Your House Locksmith Won't Tell You" . Reader's Digest . Retrieved April 21, 2019 . ^ Taylor, Glenda. "So, You Want to… Rekey a Lock" . bobvila.com . Retrieved April 21, 2019 . ^ Short, Timothy (March 24, 2014). "Pros and Cons of Rekeying" . speedylocksmith.net . Retrieved April 21, 2019 . ^ O’Shall, Donald; Truemply, John (2017). Basic Master Keying (2d ed.). Locksmithing Education Publishing. p. 13. ISBN 978-1-937067-24-3 . ^ a b Brain, Marshall; Harris, Tom. "How Lock Picking Works" . HowStuffWorks . Retrieved April 21, 2019 . ^ "Help About Rekeying Your Home" . ^ Craighead, Geoff (2009). High-Rise Security and Fire Life Safety (3d ed.). Butterworth-Heinemann. p. 275. ISBN 978-1-85617-555-5 . ^ Locksmith Manchester External links [ edit ] Kwikset Rekeying Manual v t e Locks , locksmithing , lock picking , and security alarms Fundamental concepts Access control Authentication Key control Key duplication Key relevance Master keying Password Physical security Rekeying Lock hardware Bitting Interchangeable core Key blank Key code Key retainer Lockrod Lockset Bored cylindrical lock Mortise lock Rim lock Single-point locking Three-point locking Keys Berlin key Car key Keychain Skeleton key Smart key Mechanical locks Warded lock Pin tumbler lock Disc tumbler lock Lever tumbler lock Magnetic keyed lock Padlock Combination lock Rotary combination lock Time-delay combination locks Time lock Tubular pin tumbler lock Wafer tumbler lock Electronic locks Electromagnetic lock Electronic lock Electric strike Keycard lock Other lock types Bicycle lock Bramah lock Chubb detector lock Child safety lock Kensington Security Slot Latch Luggage lock Power door locks Protector lock Real-estate lock box Steering-wheel lock The Club Lock picking Lock bumping Locksport Slim Jim Snap gun Door hardware Dead bolt Door chain Door closer Door frame Door furniture Door handle Door security Doorstop Hinge Night latch Emergency access/exit Crash bar Electromagnetic door holder Emergency exit Emergency light Exit control lock Exit sign Knox Box Security alarms Alarm device Alarm monitoring center Car alarm Card reader Closed-circuit television Door loop Dual loop Fingerprint scanner Glass break detector Heat detector Key switch Keypad Miniature snap-action switch Motion detector Occupancy sensor Passive infrared sensor (PIR) Perimeter intrusion detection Photoelectric sensor Piezo switch Pressure switch Proximity card Reed switch Tripwire Ultrasonic transducer Vandal-resistant switch Water detector Window security Miscellaneous Glossary of locksmithing terms John M. Mossman Lock Museum Key to the City Lock Museum Lock Museum of America Musée de la Serrure Puzzle lock Category:Locksmithing Keys Locks Book Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rekeying&oldid=1315957872 " Category : Locksmithing Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from October 2018 All articles needing additional references