https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exhaust_gas_temperature_gauge

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Meter used to monitor exhaust gas temperature This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Exhaust gas temperature gauge" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2014 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) An exhaust gas temperature gauge ( EGT gauge or EGT sensor ) is a meter used to monitor the exhaust gas temperature of an internal combustion engine in conjunction with a thermocouple -type pyrometer . EGT gauges are found in certain cars and aeroplanes. By monitoring EGT, the driver or pilot can get an idea of the vehicle's air-fuel ratio (AFR). At a stoichiometric air-fuel ratio, the exhaust gas temperature is different from that in a lean or rich air-fuel ratio. At rich air-fuel ratio, the exhaust gas temperature either increases or decreases depending on the fuel. High temperatures (typically above 1,600 °F or 900 °C) can be an indicator of dangerous conditions that can lead to catastrophic engine failure. Applications [ edit ] Most light piston aircraft still have manual mixture controls, and pilots use an EGT gauge to set the optimal fuel-air mixture for their current density altitude and power. The hottest cylinder-head temperatures (CHT) and highest internal cylinder pressures occur around 50 °F (10 °C) rich of peak EGT, and risk predetonation , making it essential to avoid that range, and operate either lean of peak EGT or richer than 100 °F (38 °C) rich of peak EGT. Leaner mixtures result in significant fuel savings, but may result in rough operation of some carbureted or poorly-tuned fuel-injected engines. Jet aircraft used EGT gauges which were monitored by the flight engineer during engine startup and throughout the whole flight. EGT gauges were then implemented into the interfaces of EICAS and ECAM in glass cockpits . [ 1 ] EGT meters are used for tuning turbo -equipped cars. If the sensor is installed at the manifold collector before the turbo, the turbine inlet temperature can be monitored. If the sensor is installed after the turbo, the exhaust temperature can be monitored. Because EGT typically drops 200–300 °F (93–149 °C) across the turbine, installers try to put the thermocouple as close to the cylinder head as possible to give a true reading, and a reading that will react faster to the engine's condition compared to an installation after the turbo. Air-cooled engines , like used in Volkswagen , Porsche and other cars can be damaged by over heating . An exhaust gas temperature gauge can be used to prevent damage. [ 2 ] Air-cooled motorcycle engines also can be damaged by over heating. Oxygen sensor [ edit ] Using an EGT meter alone is considered an older technique for getting the most out of petrol and diesel engines , [ according to whom? ] as gauge-type wideband digital oxygen sensors are similarly priced. [ where? ] However, some advanced racers [ example needed ] will use EGT gauges in combination with a wideband oxygen sensor to lean the fuel ratio a bit to safely raise the temperature for more power. [ citation needed ] Advanced tuning [ edit ] Though by tuning primarily by EGT and air fuel ratio values, EGT is still to this day a used data output for engine tuning. When fine tuning an engine, if possible with the ECU manipulation with the cylinder's timing can be made. By adjusting the timing, the resultant cylinder temperature can be used to improve cylinder efficiency. Though this is still widely done, [ timeframe? ] EGT values should be used as a safe guard sensor measure and as a tuning guide. [ citation needed ] References [ edit ] ^ Mike Busch. "EGT Myths Debunked" . Retrieved 2019-05-19 . ^ "No. 2558: Cooled by Air or Water" . uh.edu . Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 30 April 2018 . External links [ edit ] Benefits of individual cylinder tuning at the Wayback Machine (archived 3 September 2011) v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Exhaust_gas_temperature_gauge&oldid=1316159496 " Categories : Engine technology Engine sensors Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from September 2014 All articles needing additional references All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2020 Vague or ambiguous geographic scope from December 2020 All articles needing examples Articles needing examples from December 2020 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2020 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from December 2020 Webarchive template wayback links