https://www.motortrend.com/news/acura-future-seat-materials-cmf-design

Acura Shows Us What’ll Be Touching Our Butts in the Future Acura Shows Us What’ll Be Touching Our Butts in the Future The brand’s colors, materials, and finishes folks gave us a fascinating glimpse into the future of automotive seating. Aaron Gold Writer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 17, 2025 Interior materials science, a.k.a. CMF (for colors, materials, and finishes) may not be the sexiest gig at a car company, but for car lovers like us, it’s well worth geeking out on. Suspension engineers can brag about the rubber meeting the road, but CMF deals with the real human-machine interface, where the car literally connects with your senses of sight, smell, and touch. Specifically, touching your butt. Honda is celebrating the 50th anniversary of its California-based research and development unit, where much of its U.S.-focused technology is developed. Not just car stuff, mind you; Honda’s Torrance R&D center works on such esoteric projects as its space-rocket program and the Motocompacto electric scooter . Since Acura is a U.S.-targeted brand, here is where much of the advanced CMF stuff gets done, and we got a look at the seats of the future. What, exactly, does CMF look at? They are charged with finding new materials that not only look and feel good but support the Acura brand’s styling and emotional themes while also meeting business goals. The latter is the tricky part. Honda, or more specifically Acura, is looking for materials that exude quality but also reduce weight. One of Honda’s corporate goals is to reduce its overall carbon footprint, so the materials should be sustainable (e.g. plant-based) where possible and designed for easy recycling and reuse. The Acura team showed us partial seat models that showed off the newest technology. Of course, leather plays an important part, and the team is seeking genuine cowhides that can be tanned with more environmentally friendly processes while maintaining durability and—perhaps more important—offering bright, vibrant colors. But what the team is doing with synthetic leather is pretty nifty as well, with engineered surfaces that provide a better grip on your tush, which one needs in a car like the Intergra Type S . The team has come up with a rather creative solution to weight saving: Forget upholstery. One of the seat samples we saw had 3-D printed plastic mesh, the sort of thing usually hidden away beneath the upholstery, propping up your posterior in anonymity. Now, the Acura CMF team has left it bare, where it blends nicely with other materials. The mesh bears more than a passing resemblance to Acura’s caliper logo and the fine detail does a great job portraying the “precision” message that is part of Acura’s DNA. Other bits and bobs we were shown included plant-based plastics, “urban” lumber (we have no idea what that is; our guess would be recycled wood, unless there’s a forest between Figueroa and Hill Street that we weren’t aware of), and shark-skin patterns molded into plastic. Along with the vividly colored leathers, we also saw minimally dyed fabrics. The CMF folks have also applied aluminum, so often used to adorn dashboards and switchgear, to the backs of seats in mesh form. It’s all a long way from vinyl seat covers, that’s for sure. When might we see these new materials and processes applied to vehicles we can buy? Like most automakers, Acura keeps mum on future product, but the display was set up not far from a closer-to-production clay model of the upcoming RSX SUV , so we wonder if some of what we saw might not make an appearance there. Automakers rarely make a big deal about new seat materials at press launches, so we—and you—will just have to pay more attention to the surfaces we’re sitting on. In the future, we should see some sweet stuff. Aaron Gold After a two-decade career as a freelance writer, Aaron Gold joined MotorTrend’s sister publication Automobile in 2018 before moving to the MT staff in 2021. Aaron is a native New Yorker who now lives in Los Angeles with his spouse, too many pets, and a cantankerous 1983 GMC Suburban. Read More Share You May Also Like MotorTrend Recommended Stories Load More