https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crab_fisheries

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Fisheries which capture or farm crabs "Crabbing" redirects here. For other uses, see Crabbing (disambiguation) . Small crab boat in harbour at A Illa de Arousa , Galicia, Spain Crab fisheries are fisheries which capture or farm crabs . True crabs make up 20% of all crustaceans caught and farmed worldwide, with about 1.4 million tonnes being consumed annually. The horse crab, Portunus trituberculatus , accounts for one quarter of that total. Other important species include flower crabs ( Portunus pelagicus ), snow crabs ( Chionoecetes ), blue crabs ( Callinectes sapidus ), edible or brown crabs ( Cancer pagurus ), Dungeness crab ( Metacarcinus magister ), and mud crabs ( Scylla serrata ), each of which provides more than 20,000 tonnes annually. [ 1 ] Commercial catch [ edit ] Fishermen sorting velvet crab at Fionnphort , Scotland Boat fishing for crabs in the Bering Sea. Crab boats moored in Dutch Harbor, Alaska The FAO groups fishery catches using the ISSCAAP classification (International Standard Statistical Classification of Aquatic Animals and Plants). [ 2 ] ISSCAAP has a group for crabs and sea-spiders, and another group for king crabs and squat lobsters . Crabs and sea-spiders are defined as including "Atlantic rock crab, black stone crab, blue crab, blue swimming crab, dana swimcrab, dungeness crab, edible crab, cazami crab, geryons nei, green crab, hair crab, harbour spidercrab, Indo-Pacific swamp crab, jonah crab, marine crabs nei, Mediterranean shore crab, Pacific rock crab, portunus swimcrabs nei, queen crab, red crab, spinous spider crab, swimcrabs nei, and tanner crabs nei". [ Note 1 ] [ 3 ] The following table summarises crab production from 2000 to 2008, both caught wild and from aquaculture, in tonnes . [ 1 ] [ 4 ] Commercial crab production in tonnes Group 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Capture 1,046,269 1,034,898 1,061,697 1,246,889 1,252,260 1,233,523 1,302,069 1,300,559 1,319,953 Aquaculture 125,501 145,130 171,979 167,533 178,838 195,995 198,258 231,065 240,781 Total 1,171,770 1,180,028 1,233,676 1,414,422 1,431,098 1,429,518 1,500,327 1,531,624 1,560,734 Commercially important crab species [ edit ] Species Description Global catch in thousand tonnes reported by the FAO Portunus trituberculatus Portunus trituberculatus , known as the horse crab , known as the gazami crab or Japanese blue crab , is the most widely fished species of crab in the world, with over 300,000 tonnes being caught annually, 98% of it off the coast of China . [ 5 ] Horse crabs are found from Hokkaidō to South India , throughout Maritime Southeast Asia and south to Australia . In Malay , it is known as ketam bunga or "flower crab". It lives on shallow sandy or muddy bottoms, less than 50 m deep, where it feeds on seaweeds and predates upon small fish, worms and bivalves . The carapace may reach 15 cm (5.9 in) wide, and 7 cm ( 2 + 3 ⁄ 4 in) from front to back. External image Distribution map Portunus trituberculatus [ 5 ] Portunus pelagicus Portunus pelagicus (known as flower crabs , blue crabs , blue swimmer crabs , blue manna crabs or sand crabs ) is a large crab found in the intertidal estuaries of the Indian and Pacific Oceans (Asian coasts) and the Middle-Eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea . The name flower crab is used in east Asian countries while the latter names are used in Australia. The crabs are widely distributed in eastern Africa, Southeast Asia , Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The carapace can be up to 20 cm wide. They stay buried under sand or mud most of the time, particularly during the daytime and winter. The species is commercially important throughout the Indo-Pacific where they may be sold as traditional hard shells, or as "soft shelled" crabs, which are considered a delicacy throughout Asia. The species is highly prized as the meat is almost as sweet as the blue crab , although P. pelagicus is physically much larger. Portunus pelagicus [ 6 ] Chionoecetes Species of Chionoecetes (known as Tanner Crabs , Snow Crabs , Spider Crabs , and other names) live in the cold waters of the northern Pacific and Atlantic Ocean . [ 7 ] Snow crab are caught as far north as the Arctic Ocean , from Newfoundland to Greenland in the Atlantic Ocean , and across the Pacific Ocean , including the Sea of Japan , the Bering Sea , the Gulf of Alaska , Norton Sound , and even as far south as California for Chionoecetes bairdi . Fishing for opilio (and rarely bairdi) crab has been the focus of the second half of all four seasons of Deadliest Catch on the Discovery Channel . [ 8 ] Chionoecetes opilio [ 9 ] Callinectes sapidus The Chesapeake Bay , located in Maryland and Virginia, is famous for its "blue crabs", Callinectes sapidus . In 1993, the combined harvest of the blue crabs was valued at around 100 million U.S. dollars. Over the years the harvests of the blue crab dropped; in 2000, the combined harvest was around 45 million dollars. While blue crabs remain a popular food in the Chesapeake Bay area, the Bay is not capable of meeting local demand. Crabs are shipped into the region from North Carolina, Louisiana, Florida and Texas to supplement the local harvest. Callinectes sapidus [ 10 ] Cancer pagurus Cancer pagurus , the edible crab or brown crab , is a species found in the North Sea , North Atlantic and the Mediterranean Sea . It is a robust crab of a reddish-brown colour, having an oval carapace with a characteristic "pie crust" edge and black tips to the claws. [ 11 ] Mature adults may have a carapace width of up to about 25 cm and weigh up to 3 kg. The edible crab is abundant throughout the northeast Atlantic as far as Norway in the north and northern Africa in the south, on mixed coarse grounds, mud and sand from shallow sublittoral to about 100 m. It is frequently found inhabiting cracks and holes in rocks but occasionally also in open areas. Smaller specimens may be found under rocks in the littoral zone . [ 12 ] Edible crabs are exploited commercially throughout their range. It is illegal to catch crabs of too small a size around the coast of Britain, a conservation measure brought in the 1870s. Crabs with a shell diameter of less than 100 mm should not be taken. Cancer pagurus [ 13 ] Metacarcinus magister The Dungeness crab ( Metacarcinus magister ) inhabits eelgrass beds and water bottoms from the Aleutian Islands in Alaska to Santa Cruz, California . [ 14 ] Its binomial name, Cancer magister , simply means "master crab" in Latin . They measure as much as 25 cm (9.8 in) in some areas off the coast of Washington , but typically are under 20 cm (7.9 in). [ Note 2 ] They are a popular delicacy, and are the most commercially important crab in the Pacific Northwest , as well as the western states generally. [ 15 ] They are named after Dungeness, Washington , [ 14 ] which is located approximately five miles north of Sequim and 15 miles east of Port Angeles . The annual Dungeness Crab and Seafood Festival [ 16 ] is held in Port Angeles each October. Dungeness crab have recently been found in the Atlantic Ocean , far from their known range, raising concern about their possible effects on the local wildlife. [ 17 ] Cancer magister [ 15 ] Scylla serrata Scylla serrata (known as mud crab , or more ambiguously as mangrove crab or black crab ) is an economically important crab species found in the estuaries and mangroves of Africa , Australia and Asia . In their most common form, the shell colour varies from a deep, mottled green to very dark brown. Generally cooked with their shells on, when they moult their shells, they can be served as a seafood delicacy, one of many types of soft shell crab . They are among the tastiest crab species and have a huge demand in South Asian countries where they are often bought alive in the markets. In the northern states of Australia and especially Queensland , mud crabs are relatively common and generally prized above other seafood within the general public. Scylla serrata [ 18 ] Maja squinado Maja squinado (European spider crabs) are a species of migratory crabs found in the north-east Atlantic and the Mediterranean Sea. They are the subject of commercial fishery , with about 5,000 tonnes caught annually, 70% off the coast of France , 10% off the coast of the United Kingdom , 6% from the Channel Islands , 3% from each of Spain and Ireland , 2% from Croatia , 1% from Portugal , and the remainder from Serbia and Montenegro , Denmark and Morocco , [ 1 ] although official production figures are open to doubt. [ 19 ] The European Union imposes a minimum landing size of 120 mm for M. squinado , [ 20 ] and some individual countries have other regulations, such as a ban on landing egg-bearing females in Spain and a closed season in France and the Channel Islands. [ 19 ] Cancer borealis Cancer borealis , known as the Jonah crab , is a species of crab native to the east coast of North America from Newfoundland south to Florida, and thus found in waters ranging from  subarctic to subtropical. It is found seasonally inshore on the continental shelf, moving to depths up to 750m in autumn. Once considered as bycatch to lobster fishing , it has become an emerging fishery with the catch increasing from about 900 tonnes in 2000 to about 6,000 tonnes in 2014. [ 21 ] Most are caught in New England . In 2016, NOAA and the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission established a fisheries management plan for the species. [ 22 ] See also [ edit ] Crustaceans portal Alaskan king crab fishing Crab trap List of harvested aquatic animals by weight Notes [ edit ] ^ "Nei" is an abbreviation for "not elsewhere included". ^ Crabs are measured across the widest part of their back, excluding the legs. See, e.g., 2006-2007 Fishing in Washington Rule Pamphlet (pdf), p. 130. References [ edit ] ^ a b c "Global Capture Production 1950-2008" . Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Archived from the original on January 23, 2016 . Retrieved August 26, 2006 . ^ "ASFIS List of Species for Fishery Statistics Purposes" . Fishery Fact Sheets . Food and Agriculture Organization . Retrieved December 7, 2009 . ^ "The current International Standard Statistical Classification of Aquatic Animals and Plants (ISSCAAP) in use from 2000" (PDF) . Food and Agriculture Organization . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-05-19 . Retrieved December 7, 2009 . ^ "Global Aquaculture Production 1950-2008" . FAO . Archived from the original on January 29, 2023 . Retrieved August 26, 2006 . ^ a b FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Portunus trituberculatus , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Portunus pelagicus , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ Jadamec, L. S., W. E. Donaldson & P. Cullenberg (1999). Biological Field Techniques for Chionoecetes crabs . University of Alaska Sea Grant College Program. {{ cite book }} :  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) Part 1 Archived November 13, 2005, at the Wayback Machine Part 2 Archived November 13, 2005, at the Wayback Machine ^ Deadliest Catch Official Site ^ FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Chionoecetes opilio , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Callinectes sapidus , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ Neal, K.J.; E. Wilson (2005). "Edible crab, Cancer pagurus " . Marine Life Information Network . Archived from the original on 2009-02-14 . Retrieved 2008-05-23 . ^ "Edible crab ( Cancer pagurus )" . ARKive.org . Archived from the original on 2008-04-12 . Retrieved 2008-05-23 . ^ FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Cancer pagurus , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ a b "The Dungeness Crab" . Dungeness community website . Retrieved August 28, 2006 . ^ a b FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Cancer magister , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ "Dungeness Crab and Seafood Festival" . ^ Andrea Cohen (2006-08-09). "Crab nabbed; circumstances fishy" . MIT News Office . ^ FAO : Species Fact Sheets: Scylla serrata , Retrieved 26 November 2009. ^ a b Carl Meyer. " Maja squinado , the European Spider Crab: Biology and Fishery" . ^ "Council Regulation (EEC) No 3094/86" . Official Journal of the European Communities . 1986-10-07. ^ "Jonah crab" . Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission . 15 May 2025. ^ White, Cliff (March 6, 2016). "Creating a sustainable fishery: The Jonah crab story" . SeafoodSource . v t e Edible crustaceans Shrimp / prawns Acetes Crangon crangon Cryphiops caementarius Dried shrimp Indian prawn Litopenaeus setiferus Macrobrachium rosenbergii Palaemon serratus Pandalus borealis Penaeus esculentus Penaeus monodon Processa edulis Shrimp paste Whiteleg shrimp Xiphopenaeus kroyeri Lobsters (incl. slipper & spiny ) American lobster Arctides guineensis California spiny lobster Homarus gammarus Ibacus peronii Japanese spiny lobster Jasus Jasus edwardsii Jasus lalandii Metanephrops challengeri Thenus orientalis Nephrops norvegicus Palinurus elephas Panulirus argus Panulirus cygnus Panulirus echinatus Panulirus guttatus Panulirus homarus Panulirus longipes Panulirus ornatus Panulirus pascuensis Panulirus penicillatus Panulirus versicolor Parribacus japonicus Sagmariasus Scyllarides herklotsii Scyllarides latus Scyllarus arctus Thymops birsteini Tristan rock lobster Crabs Callinectes sapidus Callinectes similis Cancer irroratus Cancer bellianus Cancer pagurus Cancer productus Chaceon fenneri Chaceon quinquedens Chinese mitten crab Chionoecetes Coconut crab Dungeness crab Florida stone crab Gecarcinus ruricola Horsehair crab Hypothalassia acerba Jonah crab King crab Maja squinado Menippe adina Orithyia sinica Ovalipes australiensis Ovalipes catharus Pie crust crab Portunus pelagicus Portunus trituberculatus Ranina ranina Scylla paramamosain Scylla serrata Soft-shell crab Tasmanian giant crab Crayfish Acocil Astacus astacus Marron Cherax Paranephrops Procambarus clarkii Orconectes virilis Signal crayfish Others Austromegabalanus psittacus Goose barnacle Krill Langostino Mantis shrimp Squat lobster Thalassina Category v t e Fishery science topics Fisheries science and wild fisheries Fisheries science Population dynamics of fisheries Shifting baseline Fish stock Fish mortality Condition index Stock assessment Fish measurement Standard weight in fish Fish counter Data storage tag Catch per unit effort Otolith microchemical analysis Biomass Fisheries acoustics Acoustic tag Coded wire tag GIS and aquatic science Pop-up satellite archival tag EcoSCOPE Age class structure Trophic level Trophic cascades Hydrographic containment Match/mismatch hypothesis Climate change and fisheries Marine biology Aquatic ecosystems Bioeconomics EconMult Ecopath FishBase Census of Marine Life OSTM/Jason-2 Fisheries databases Institutes Fisheries scientists Wild fisheries Ocean fisheries Diversity of fish Coastal fish Coral reef fish Demersal fish Forage fish Pelagic fish Cod fisheries Crab fisheries Eel fisheries Krill fisheries Kelp fisheries Lobster fisheries Shrimp fishery Eel ladder Fish ladder Fish screen Migration Salmon run Sardine run Shoaling and schooling Marine habitat Marine snow Water column Upwelling Humboldt current Algal blooms Dead zones Fish kill Fisheries law , management , sustainability and conservation Law Fisheries law Exclusive economic zone Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement Fisheries Convention Magnuson–Stevens Act Management Fisheries management Monitoring control and surveillance Vessel monitoring system Fishery Resources Monitoring System Catch reporting Fisheries observer Catch share Individual fishing quota Minimum landing size Pulse fishing Slot limit EU Common Fisheries Policy EU MLS European Fisheries Control Agency National Marine Fisheries Service Regional fishery body Regional fishery management organisation Sustainability Sustainable fishery Maximum sustainable yield List of commercially important fish species Sustainable seafood Overfishing Environmental impact of fishing Fishing down the food web Destructive fishing practices Future of Marine Animal Populations The Sunken Billions The End of the Line Bycatch Discards Incidental catch Cetacean bycatch Turtle excluder device Shrimp-Turtle case Conservation Marine protected area Marine reserve Marine conservation Marine conservation activism Salmon conservation Grey nurse shark conservation Shark sanctuary European Environmental Agency U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Advocacy FishAct Marine Stewardship Council Aquaculture Stewardship Council Friend of the Sea SeaChoice Seafood Watch Ocean Conservancy Ocean Outcomes Oceana Save Our Seas Foundation Sea Around Us WorldFish Defying Ocean's End HERMIONE PROFISH International Seafood Sustainability Foundation Sea Shepherd Conservation Society Greenpeace Related issues CalCOFI Fish slaughter Marine pollution Mercury in fish Shark culling Shark finning Threatened sharks Threatened rays Outline of fishing Index of fishing articles Glossary of fishery terms v t e Principal commercial fishery species groups Wild Large pelagic fish Mackerel Salmon Shark Swordfish Tuna albacore bigeye Atlantic bluefin Pacific bluefin southern bluefin skipjack yellowfin Forage fish Anchovy Capelin Herring Ilish Menhaden Sardines Saury Shad Sprat european Demersal fish Catfish Cod Atlantic Pacific Alaska pollock Flatfish flounder halibut plaice sole turbot Haddock Mullet Orange roughy Pollock Rockfish Smelt-whitings Toothfish Freshwater fish Carp Sturgeon Tilapia Trout Other wild fish Eel Whitebait more... Crustaceans Crab Krill Lobster Shrimp Prawns more... Molluscs Abalone Mussels Octopus Oysters Scallops Squid more... Echinoderms Sea cucumbers Sea urchin more... Fisheries Cod fisheries Crab fisheries Krill fishery Lobster fishing Shrimp fishery Farmed Carp bighead common crucian grass silver Catfish Freshwater prawns Gilt-head bream Mussels Oysters Salmon Atlantic salmon trout coho chinook Scallops Seaweed Shrimp Tilapia Commercial fishing World fish production Commercial species Fishing topics Fisheries glossary v t e Fishing industry topics Wild fisheries Fishing industry Aquarium fishery Artisanal fishing Bycatch Commercial fishing Declawing of crabs Fish slaughter List of harvested aquatic animals by weight Trawling Overfishing Pair trawling Midwater trawling Bottom trawling Seining Gillnetting Longlining Lobster fishing Trolling Dredging Fishing vessels Fish trap Power block Shark finning Fisheries Agulhas Bank Crab fisheries Cod fisheries Fishing by country Fisheries management Illegal fishing in Africa Krill fishery Ocean fisheries World fish production North Sea Shrimp fishery Aquaculture and farmed fisheries Aquaculture Aquaculture engineering Aquaponics Best practices Copper alloys Geothermal energy and aquaculture Inland saline Integrated multi-trophic Mariculture Antimicrobials Offshore Organic Raceway Recirculating Fish farming Broodstock Catfish Cobia Fish diseases and parasites Fish farming Fish feed Fish hatchery Fish stocking Spawning bed Salmon Tilapia Tailwater US hatcheries Algaculture Giant kelp Microalgae Microalgal bacterial flocs Photobioreactor Raceway pond Seaweed Other species Brine shrimp Coral Freshwater prawns Geoduck Hirudiculture Marine shrimp Octopus Oysters Scallops Sea cucumber Sea sponges Turtles By country Australia Canada Chile China Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Indonesia Kiribati Madagascar Marshall Islands Nauru New Zealand Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines Samoa Solomon Islands South Africa South Korea Timor-Leste Tonga Tuvalu United Kingdom United States Alaska Hawaii Maine Vanuatu Seafood processing and marketing Seafood processing Fish processing Fish factory Factory ship Fish preservation Slurry ice Dried fish Filleted fish Gibbing Salmon cannery Salted fish Smoked fish Kippers Seafood products Seafood Fish as food Cod liver oil Fish products Fish emulsion Fish meal Fish hydrolysate Fish oil Fish protein powder Fish sauce Gravlax Hákarl Lox Lutefisk Rakfisk Roe Bottarga Caviar Eoran Red caviar Pollock roe Tobiko Karasumi Shrimp paste Surimi Surströmming Seafood marketing Fish marketing Live fish trade Shrimp marketing Chasse-marée Fishmonger Fishwife Worshipful Company of Fishmongers Fish markets Billingsgate Busan English (Ireland) Fulton Garak Honolulu Huanan Jagiroad Jagalchi La Nueva Viga Maine Avenue Muara Angke Nouakchott Noryangjin Oluwo Pasil Peterhead Pike Place Sydney Scania Taipei Toyosu Tsukiji Ulsan Waterfront (Dubai) Authority control databases International GND FAST National United States France BnF data Israel Other Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Crab_fisheries&oldid=1307223976 " Categories : Fishing industry Crabs and humans Crustaceans as food Hidden categories: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata