https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101818/is-it-safe-to-top-up-engine-oil-instead-of-doing-a-full-oil-change-immediately

Is it safe to top up engine oil instead of doing a full oil change immediately? Ask Question Asked 4 days ago Modified 2 days ago Viewed 787 times 5 I drive a 2006 Honda Jazz (petrol, 1.2 i-DSI). I checked my dipstick today and there’s only around 1cm of oil showing, so it definitely needs attention soon. I’m planning to buy oil tomorrow (because everythings closed on Christmas day), but I wanted to ask whether it’s okay to simply top it up for now without changing the filter or draining what’s left, since I’ve never worked under a car before nor do I have the tools for it. Next week I’ll be doing a 1.5-hour motorway drive to another city where I was planning to get a much cheaper service done due to some personal connections I have. Is it safe to top it up now and then just ask them to change the filter alone next week, or is it essential that I drain and replace everything immediately? Any quick advice would be really appreciated. Thanks! engine honda oil jazz Share Improve this question Follow edited Dec 25 at 13:27 Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 ♦ 168k 32 32 gold badges 260 260 silver badges 515 515 bronze badges asked Dec 25 at 10:33 Slaxe 51 1 1 bronze badge New contributor Slaxe is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct . 1 Are gas/petrol stations near you closed? For me gas/petrol stations are still open and they usually keep motor oil in stock. Cave Johnson – Cave Johnson 2025-12-25 23:16:26 +00:00 Commented Dec 25 at 23:16 Add a comment | 3 Answers 3 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 5 Adding oil to bring it up to level is by far better for your engine than letting it run low. You WILL NOT hurt anything by doing so. As far as changing oil just this minute rather than waiting, the oil change interval is what is recommended. If your oil change interval is 4000 miles, it doesn't mean when you reach that distance the oil suddenly stops working and your engine will die. It means, it's time to get it changed. Changing it (along with the filter) can be done a couple hundred miles either side of the recommended change interval without detriment to your engine. Is doing it late a good thing? By all means, no. Sometimes you gotta do what you gotta do. Also, when topping it off, it is best to have the oil level at the top of the full range. This ensures the maximum amount of oil is in the engine and will provide the best service life. The maximum amount of oil will provide the longest amount of protection for your engine. Just don't overfill it because the that can cause other issues. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Dec 25 at 13:27 Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 ♦ 168k 32 32 gold badges 260 260 silver badges 515 515 bronze badges 1 5 And @Slaxe, remember this does not give you a pass to skip the oil change and just replace your filter when you reach your destination. Your dipstick does not touch the bottom of your oil pan, so even if the dipstick showed no oil at all, there's still a significant amount of dirty oil in the oil pan that will mix with your fresh oil when you top it up. A proper oil change always includes draining the oil no matter how recently you topped it up. MTA – MTA 2025-12-25 13:55:14 +00:00 Commented Dec 25 at 13:55 Add a comment | 1 You may wish to edit the post to reflect the current mileage since last oil change and the operator's manual recommendation for oil change intervals. If your vehicle has not exceeded the oil change interval, it's safe to add oil to the appropriate level indicated on the dipstick, aiming for halfway between empty and full, if you plan to have the oil changed during your trip. There is really no immediate need, other than to bring the oil level up a bit, especially since motorway driving will be more likely to deplete than city driving. It's more practical to change the filter and oil at the same time, to ensure a properly "clean" lubrication system. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Dec 25 at 11:43 fred_dot_u 5,330 1 1 gold badge 10 10 silver badges 18 18 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Topping off the oil is fine. The issue is, why is it so low? Are you burning it? Are you leaking it? Did you check the ground for oil leaks? Has it been a very long time since your last oil change? A small loss of oil over many months is not an issue. Burning small amounts of oil in an older car, is not ideal, but okay. If your car needs two quarts of oil a month, something is wrong and it needs to be identified and fixed. One of my concerns is that you are burning it or leaking it at a slow rate. Both are signs of a problem, potentially a serious problem. You decide to go on a long trip and the problem gets worse. As a result, on the trip you lose a lot of oil and the car becomes unsafe to drive. Share Improve this answer Follow answered 2 days ago Bob 123 2 2 bronze badges Add a comment | You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions engine honda oil jazz See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 2 Change in engine oil colour immediately after oil change 1 Oil in coolant recovery tank, how urgent is it? 1 Engine oil change interval difference 0 Car won't pickup speed, only goes about 30 MPH. Why? 2 Engine failed on 2013 subaru impreza (2.0L, non-turbo) CVT, need second opinions 7 Is it alright to top off with oil instead of changing after 3000 miles? 3 Honda Accord 03-07 CDTi leaking coolant, no drips, no steam, no mayo 0 Engine Oil Change Duration regarding with respect to Engine Oil Top Up 3 Oil leak on engine top Hot Network Questions In what way is Jesus' burden light? Weird terminal formatting (Ubuntu 24.04) What is the benefit of letting an in-progress espagnole sauce rest overnight? What can we learn from King Solomon if he possibly missed the mark? How is the disc identifier found in .cda files computed? Word: the beginning How can I make an object shadowless? If Dr. Henry Jekyll had been charged with killing Sir Danvers Carew, would he have been found guilty? WCF 5.3: What does it mean that God uses means and can work without, above and against them? What does the command 'recoverydiagnose' do? How to confirm the original server IP behind a CDN? Fraud/Credit that does NOT require a credit check Confirming Symbols Is Daredevil's powered-up form in Marvel Rivals based on a comic version? How can I convert object locations currently in UTMs to a rectangular (square) coordinate system with lower left corner coordinates as 0 m , 0 m? Very weak performance of the rear disk brake Why doesn't the HDMI port on an HP EliteBook Ultra G1i work as an output port? Is the Canonical Decomposition of Functions Canonical? First Conditional in Simple Present Why does the right control key acts as touchpad (mouse) left click in Pop!_OS Cosmic (24.04 LTS)? Is a hyphen in "almost(-)<adjective>" compound modifier needed, optional, or wrong? Is a commission considered a 'commercial use' under the CC-BY-NC? Why is there a 'Temperature' and a 'Feels like (Temperature)' in weather apps? What's the difference between the two? Introducing younger kids to the navigation of traffic alone more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.