https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events

Edit instructions From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal maintenance status: (October 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software . Learn how to update the maintenance information here . Wikipedia portal for content related to Current events Wikimedia portal Worldwide current events Sports events Recent deaths Entry views by week list Today's most viewed articles Wikimedia portal Topics in the news Brigitte Bardot French actress and animal rights activist Brigitte Bardot (pictured) dies at the age of 91 . Israel becomes the first country to officially recognise Somaliland as an independent state. Nasry Asfura is elected president of Honduras , after one month of controversy surrounding the vote counting process. A jet crash near Ankara , Turkey, kills all eight people on board, including Libyan Army chief of staff Mohammed al-Haddad . A mass stabbing in Taipei , Taiwan, leaves four people dead, including the perpetrator. Ongoing : Gaza war timeline genocide Russo-Ukrainian war timeline Sudanese civil war timeline Recent deaths : Katie Allen Perry Bamonte Kiriko Nananan Fanil Sarvarov Ken White Kazuhiro Sugita Nominate an article December 29, 2025 ( 2025-12-29 ) (Monday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Gaza war Assassination of Abu Obaida Hamas confirms the death of the spokesperson of the al-Qassam Brigades , Abu Obaida , and other officials. ( The Jerusalem Post ) (Reuters) Turkey–Islamic State conflict Three police officers and six Islamic State gunmen are killed in a shootout during a raid at a house in Elmalık, Yalova Province , Turkey . Eight other officers and a civilian are also wounded. (Al Jazeera) Disasters and accidents Three people are killed and another is injured when an avalanche hits a popular ski resort on the Pyrenees in Panticosa , Aragon , Spain . ( Daily Express ) Two people are killed and British boxer Anthony Joshua is injured when a car crashes into a stationary truck on the Ogun–Lagos state expressway near Lagos , Nigeria . (BBC News) Politics and elections 2025 Iranian protests December 2025 Iranian protests Protests erupt in Tehran , Iran , for a second day after the Iranian rial drops in value and inflation rates increase by 42.2%. The leader of the Central Bank of Iran resigns in response. (AP) December 28, 2025 ( 2025-12-28 ) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Ecuadorian security crisis Six people, including a two-year-old girl, are killed and three others are injured in a mass shooting at a beach in Puerto López , Manabí Province , Ecuador . ( La Nación in Spanish ) (TRT World) Arts and culture After months of a high-profile legal dispute , entertainment agency ADOR terminates its contract with singer Danielle and expels her from the girl group NewJeans , one of South Korea's most successful commercial acts. ( Korea JoongAng Daily ) ( The Independent ) ( Rolling Stone ) Disasters and accidents 2025 Oaxaca train derailment At least 13 people are killed and 98 others are injured, including five critically, when a Tren Interoceánico train carrying 250 people derails in Asunción Ixtaltepec , Oaxaca , Mexico . (Reuters) (Infobae in Spanish ) Three people, including a toddler, are killed and three others are injured and hospitalized when a building collapses in Soweto , South Africa . (AP) Law and crime 2025 Richelieu stabbing Nine people are killed, including five children, and three others are injured, including the perpetrator and another child, in a mass stabbing spree at multiple houses in Richelieu, Commewijne District , Suriname . (AP) Capital punishment in Iraq The Supreme Iraqi Criminal Tribunal sentences a former Ba'athist lieutenant to death for the massacre of Barzanis during the Anfal campaign against Kurds . ( The New Region ) Politics and elections 2025–26 Myanmar general election Citizens of Myanmar vote in the first phase to elect the nation's legislature . Two further phases of voting are expected in January. (AP) 2025 Central African general election Citizens of the Central African Republic vote to elect a president and 140 members of the National Assembly . Incumbent president Faustin-Archange Touadéra seeks a third term in office. (Reuters) 2025 Guinean presidential election Guineans vote for a president as incumbent Mamady Doumbouya seeks to be elected four years after leading a coup . (Reuters) December 2025 Kosovan parliamentary election Kosovans vote for the second time in a year to elect the members of the Kuvendi . (AP via ABC News) December 27, 2025 ( 2025-12-27 ) (Saturday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Russo-Ukrainian war Kyiv strikes , Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Two people are killed and 32 are injured during a Russian missile and drone strike on Kyiv , Ukraine . Damage to critical infrastructure leaves 40% of Kyiv's residential areas and surrounding districts without heating . (BBC News) Denis Kapustin , leader of the Ukraine -aligned neo-Nazi Russian Volunteer Corps , is killed in a Russian drone strike in Zaporizhzhia Oblast . ( The Kyiv Independent ) ( The Moscow Times ) Sudanese civil war Darfur genocide The Rapid Support Forces kill over 200 civilians in ethnically motivated attacks targeting non- Arabs in West Darfur and during advances in North Darfur , according to the Sudan Doctors Union . ( The Express Tribune ) 2023 Nigerien coup d'état , Islamist insurgency in Niger The Nigerien government declares a nationwide mobilization that authorizes the conscription of citizens and the requisition of property and services to support operations against jihadist insurgent groups. (AFP via France 24) 2025 Cambodia–Thailand conflict Cambodia and Thailand sign a new ceasefire agreement, calling for a pause in military movements and airspace encroachment for military purposes. (AP) Business and economy Cross-strait relations , China–United States relations China sanctions 20 United States defense -related companies and ten executives for providing weapons to Taiwan last week. (AP) Lithium mining in Chile Chilean state-owned mining company Codelco and private miner SQM create a joint venture to develop lithium in the Atacama salt flat until 2060, with the Chilean state set to receive the majority of operating margins . (AFP via Barron's ) Trade policy of China The National People's Congress of China passes a revised trade law that will expand the government 's authority to counter trade restrictions , regulate exports of strategic goods , and update provisions on digital , green , and intellectual-property trade from March 1, 2026. (Reuters) Disasters and accidents Fifteen people are killed and 19 more injured as a bus plunges in to a ravine while driving on the Inter-American Highway in Sololá Department , Guatemala . (Al Jazeera) An accident involving two cars after an improper overtaking kills eleven people on the BR-101 highway near Mucuri , Bahia , Brazil . (UOL) At least nine people are killed and eight others are injured when a bus carrying 19 charity workers overturns on a mountain in Phình Hồ, Lào Cai province , Vietnam . (Reuters) ( Tuổi Trẻ ) Three of five members of a Spanish tourist family are killed after a boat carrying eleven people sinks near Padar , Indonesia . (AP) A M w 7.0 earthquake , rated intensity four on the Central Weather Administration seismic intensity scale , strikes 32 km (20 mi) off the coast of Yilan , Taiwan , causing a temporary power outage for over 3,000 households. (DW) (CNN) Law and crime Oil smuggling in Iran The Iranian justice ministry seizes a foreign-flagged oil tanker carrying 25,000 barrels traveling through the Strait of Hormuz and detains its sixteen crew members on allegations of carrying illegal items. (AP) A joint operation between the Italian state police and the financial police results in the arrest of nine people for allegedly raising about € 7 million (US$8.2 million) through charities and diverting most of the funds to Hamas following the 2023 attack on Israel . (UPI) Politics and elections 2025 Ivorian parliamentary election Citizens of the Ivory Coast vote for the 255 members of the National Assembly despite the opposition Democratic Party boycotting due to alleged election fraud by the ruling RHDP party. (DW) The Italian Parliament approves a reform that reduces the powers of the Court of Audit over public spending , caps financial penalties for negligent administrators at 30% of losses or two years of salary, and introduces automatic approval if the court does not respond within 30 days. (Reuters) December 26, 2025 ( 2025-12-26 ) (Friday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Palestinian political violence 2025 Harod Valley attack Two Israeli civilians are killed and another two are injured, including a child, in a vehicle ramming and stabbing attack by a Palestinian man in Beit She'an and Afula , Israel . The perpetrator is shot by police and hospitalized. (AP) (DW) ( The New York Times ) Syrian conflict Ali ibn Abi Talib Mosque bombing Eight people are killed and 18 more are injured in an explosion caused by Saraya Ansar al-Sunnah at an Alawite mosque in Homs , Syria . (Al Jazeera) (France 24) Two soldiers are killed and another is critically wounded in a drone strike against a military base in Tine , Wadi Fira , Chad . The perpetrators are unknown. (Reuters) Business and economy The Takaichi Cabinet of Japan approves a ¥ 122.3 trillion (US$785 billion) budget for the next fiscal year, the largest national budget in Japan's history, while reducing the debt -dependence ratio to 24.2 percent, supported by projected tax revenues of a record ¥83.7 trillion ($535 billion). (Reuters) Disasters and accidents Two people are killed and 26 others are injured in a 50-vehicle collision on the Kan-etsu Expressway in Gunma Prefecture , Japan. (Kyodo News) ( The Independent ) International relations Israel–Somaliland relations , International recognition of Somaliland Israel becomes the first country to recognize Somaliland as an independent and sovereign state . Somaliland also officially recognises Israel . (Reuters) Law and crime 1Malaysia Development Berhad scandal The Malaysian Federal Court sentences former prime minister Najib Razak to 15 years in prison and a RM‎ 13.5 billion (US$3.3 billion) fine for abuse of power and money laundering . (AP) 2022–2023 Brazilian coup plot The Brazilian Supreme Federal Court orders the preventive detention of former federal highway police chief Silvinei Vasques after he was captured in Paraguay while attempting to flee Brazil despite electronic tagging , following his conviction for involvement in the attempted coup . (Reuters) Fifteen people are injured in a mass stabbing and liquid attack at a factory in Mishima , Shizuoka Prefecture , Japan. The perpetrator is arrested. (CBS News) December 25, 2025 ( 2025-12-25 ) (Thursday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks War against the Islamic State 2025 United States strikes in Nigeria The United States Armed Forces launch airstrikes on over 70 locations in Sokoto State , Nigeria , targeting Islamic State camps on orders of U.S. president Donald Trump . An unknown number of casualties are confirmed. (CBS News) (BBC News) Russo-Ukrainian war Violations of non-combatant airspace during the Russo-Ukrainian war The Polish Air Force intercepts and escorts a Russian aerial reconnaissance aircraft over international waters in the Baltic Sea away from nearby Polish airspace . (DW) Israel–Hezbollah conflict , Iran–Israel relations Three people are killed in two separate Israeli airstrikes targeting vehicles in southern Lebanon , including a member of the Iranian Quds Force . (Al Jazeera) (Reuters) Turkey–Islamic State conflict Turkish authorities seize weapons and documents and arrest 115 suspects in Istanbul , connected with Islamic State -planned attacks on non-Muslims at Christmas and New Year's festivals across the country. (BBC News) Disasters and accidents A bus with a Quezon City – Gubat route falls into a ravine in Del Gallego, Camarines Sur , Philippines , killing six passengers and injuring more than 20. (ABS-CBN News in Filipino ) Law and crime 2024 Venezuelan political crisis Venezuela states that it has released 99 people detained after protests over the 2024 presidential election . (Reuters) A Russian court sentences Left Front leader Sergei Udaltsov to six years in prison for justifying terrorism . (AP) A woman is found dead and two other people are wounded in an attack in Boden , Sweden . The perpetrator is shot and killed by police . (Reuters) Politics and elections Elections in Somalia Residents of Mogadishu , Somalia , vote to elect 390 district council members who will select the city's mayor , marking Somalia's first direct election since 1969 , serving as a pilot for planned nationwide polls. (Reuters) December 24, 2025 ( 2025-12-24 ) (Wednesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Middle Eastern crisis Israel–Hezbollah conflict An alleged Hezbollah member is killed in an airstrike by the Israel Defense Forces on a vehicle near Jannata , Tyre District , South Governorate , Lebanon . (MSN) Syrian conflict Three former officials of the al-Assad regime are killed in clashes with Syrian security forces near Jableh , Latakia Governorate . (AFP via Al Arabiya) Religious violence in Nigeria At least six people are killed, including the perpetrator, and 35 others are injured in a suicide bombing by a Boko Haram terrorist at a mosque in Maiduguri , Borno State , Nigeria . ( The Punch ) (Reuters) An explosive device kills two police officers and the suspected perpetrator in Moscow , Russia , near where Russian lieutenant general Fanil Sarvarov was killed in a separate bombing two days prior. (BBC News) Disasters and accidents Mediterranean Sea migrant smuggling A boat carrying 117 migrants capsizes in the Mediterranean Sea , killing 116 people and leaving only one survivor. ( Daily Express ) Five people are killed when a rescue helicopter crashes on Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania . (Reuters) Law and crime The Ghanaian information ministry arrests 48 Nigerians allegedly participating in cybercrime operations on the outskirts of Accra . (DW) Politics and elections 2025 Honduran general election The Honduran National Electoral Council declares National Party candidate Nasry Asfura winner of the presidential election almost one month after it was held. (BBC News) December 23, 2025 ( 2025-12-23 ) (Tuesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Israeli–Palestinian conflict Israeli settler violence Five masked Israeli settlers break into a Palestinian house in the southern West Bank , killing three sheep, injuring four others, and fire tear gas into the living quarters. Three children under the age of four are taken to hospital after the tear gas attack. ( Los Angeles Times ) Russo-Ukrainian war Northern Donetsk Oblast campaign The Ukrainian Armed Forces confirm their withdrawal from Siversk , Donetsk Oblast . (Reuters) War on drugs , Operation Southern Spear 2025 United States military strikes on alleged drug traffickers The United States Southern Command announces U.S. forces have struck an alleged drug trafficking vessel in the eastern Pacific Ocean , killing one person. (ABC News) Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa The Pakistani Taliban detonates a bomb and shoots at a police van in Karak , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan , killing five officers. (Reuters) Yemeni civil war In an agreement mediated by the United Nations special envoy office and the International Committee of the Red Cross , the Yemeni Presidential Leadership Council and the Houthis release a joint 2,900 detainees held throughout the civil war. (AP) Business and economy The Italian Competition Authority fines Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair €255 million (US$300 million) for allegedly abusing its dominant market position from April 2023 to April 2025 by restricting how travel agencies sell its flights. (Reuters) Disasters and accidents Harmony Jets Flight 185 A Dassault Falcon 50 jet carrying Mohammed Ali Ahmed al-Haddad , the Libyan Army chief, four other passengers and three crew crashes approximately two kilometers south of Kesikkavak , Haymana , Ankara , Turkey . No survivors are reported. (Al Jazeera) (AP) At least two people are killed and 20 others are injured in an explosion and fire at a nursing home in Bucks County , Pennsylvania , United States . (WPVI-TV) (Reuters) International relations Montenegro–Turkey relations , Visa policy of Montenegro Montenegro reinstates visa-free entry for Turkish citizens but shortens the permitted stay from 90 days to 30 days after resuming cooperation with Turkey . (Reuters) United States–European Union relations , Visa and deportation controversies in the second Trump administration The United States imposes visa bans on Center for Countering Digital Hate CEO Imran Ahmed , former European Commissioner for Internal Market Thierry Breton , Global Disinformation Index co-founder Clare Melford , and HateAid CEOs Anna-Lena von Hodenberg and Josephine Ballon for allegedly pressuring U.S. social media platforms to restrict speech . (Reuters) Law and crime Corruption in Romania Romanian president Nicușor Dan announces an investigation into alleged systemic abuses within the judiciary after judges and prosecutors report intimidation and undue influence by the High Court of Cassation and Justice . (Reuters) Piracy in Venezuela The Venezuelan National Assembly approves a law that creates prison terms of up to 20 years for promoting or financing activities defined as piracy , blockades , or related international crimes. (Reuters) Zagreb school stabbing A Croatian man is sentenced to 50 years in prison for fatally stabbing a 7-year-old student at a school in Zagreb in December 2024. (AP) Politics and elections 2026 Portuguese presidential election A court in Lisbon , Portugal , orders Chega presidential candidate André Ventura to remove campaign posters targeting the Romani people within 24 hours, ruling that the materials are discriminatory and may incite hatred , or face daily fines of €2,500 (US$2,940) per poster. (Reuters) More December 2025 events... Time : 22:46 UTC | Day : 29 December ◀ December 2025 ▶ S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 More December 2025 events... Wikimedia portal About this page • News about Wikipedia Ongoing events Disasters and humanitarian Sudan famine Economics United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis United States tariff policy United States–Canada–Mexico trade war United States–China trade war Politics and diplomacy China–Japan diplomatic crisis Gaza peace plan Gaza war hostage crisis Russia–Ukraine peace negotiations United States deportation efforts United States federal forces deployments Protests and strikes Gen Z protests Georgian protests and political crisis Philippine anti-corruption protests Serbian anti-corruption protests edit section Elections and referendums Recent December 14: Chile , President (2nd round) 27: Ivory Coast , National Assembly 28: Myanmar , National Assembly, People's Assembly (1st phase) 28: Central African Republic , President, National Assembly 28: Guinea , President 28: Kosovo , Assembly Upcoming January 11: Benin , National Assembly 11: Myanmar , National Assembly, People's Assembly (2nd phase) edit section Sports American football 2025 NFL season 2025 NCAA Division I FBS season Association football 2025–26 UEFA Champions League 2025–26 UEFA Europa League 2025–26 UEFA Conference League 2025–26 UEFA Women's Champions League 2025–26 UEFA Women's Europa Cup 2025–26 Premier League 2025–26 La Liga 2025–26 Bundesliga 2025–26 Serie A 2025–26 Ligue 1 2025–26 Women's Super League Basketball 2025–26 EuroLeague 2025–26 NBA season 2025–26 EuroLeague Women 2025–26 NCAA Division I men's season 2025–26 NCAA Division I women's season International cricket 2025–27 ICC World Test Championship Ice hockey 2025–26 NHL season 2025–26 PWHL season Rugby union 2025–26 Premiership Rugby 2025–26 United Rugby Championship More details – current sports events edit section Recent deaths December 0 / 0 November 28: Brigitte Bardot 27: Jeffrey R. Holland 25: Dado Banatao 25: John Robertson 24: Perry Bamonte 23: Katie Allen 22: Chris Rea 22: Fanil Sarvarov 21: Betty Reid Soskin 21: Vince Zampella 20: Sreenivasan 19: Lorraine Cheshire 19: James Ransone 19: Cathy Cabral 18: Rodrigo Borja Cevallos 18: Greg Biffle 18: Jim Hunt 18: Nandó dos Santos 17: Peter Arnett 16: Gil Gerard 15: Joe Ely 14: Anthony Geary 14: Rob Reiner 14: Michele Singer Reiner 14: Mike White 13: Carl Carlton 13: Abraham Quintanilla 13: Bobby Rousseau 13: Ra'ad Sa'ad 12: Peter Greene 11: Stanley Baxter 11: Joanna Trollope 10: Jeff Garcia 10: Sophie Kinsella 10: Jim Ward 0 9: Dixie Deans 0 9: Rod Paige 0 8: Iain Douglas-Hamilton 0 8: Gordon Goodwin 0 8: Raul Malo 0 8: Jubilant Sykes 0 8: John Noble Wilford 0 6: Tom Hicks 0 6: Martin Parr 0 5: Michael Annett 0 5: Frank Gehry 0 4: Ted Egan 0 4: Roy Kramer 0 4: Yasser Abu Shabab 0 4: Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa 0 3: Steve Cropper 0 3: Charles Norman Shay 0 1: Elden Campbell 0 1: Nicola Pietrangeli 0 1: Robin Smith 0 1: Valegro 30: Billy Bonds 29: Ludwig Minelli 29: Tom Stoppard 29: Toni Lamond edit section Ongoing conflicts Global War against the Islamic State Africa Democratic Republic of the Congo M23 campaign Cameroon Anglophone Crisis Central African Republic Civil war Ethiopia Fano insurgency Sahel Mali War Chad Basin Burkina Faso Niger Somalia Civil war Sudan Civil war Americas Colombia Colombian conflict Haiti Gang war Mexico Mexican drug war Venezuela United States naval deployment and boat strikes Asia−Pacific Afghanistan Republican insurgency Afghanistan and Pakistan Afghanistan–Pakistan clashes Insurgency in Balochistan Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Cambodia and Thailand Cambodia–Thailand conflict India Naxalite–Maoist insurgency Myanmar Civil war Europe Russia and Ukraine Russo-Ukrainian war Middle East Gaza and Israel Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip Middle Eastern crisis Israel–Hezbollah conflict Israeli invasion of Syria Red Sea crisis Syrian conflict Yemen Civil war See also – List of ongoing proxy wars edit section 2025 events and developments by topic Arts Animation ( Anime ) Architecture Comics Film ( Horror , Science fiction ) Literature ( Poetry ) Music ( Classical , Country , Hip hop , Jazz , Latin , Metal , Rock , UK , US , Korea ) Radio Television ( Australia , Canada , Ireland , UK , Scotland , US ) Video games Politics and government Elections International leaders Sovereign states Sovereign state leaders Territorial governors Science and technology Archaeology Biotechnology Computing Palaeontology Quantum computing and communication Senescence research Space/Astronomy Spaceflight Sustainable energy research Environment and environmental sciences Climate change Weather ( Heat waves Tornadoes Wildfires ) Transportation Aviation Rail transport Transportation technology By place Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bangladesh The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Comoros Congo DR Congo Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Eswatini Equatorial Guinea Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Liechtenstein Libya Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Madagascar Marshall Islands Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Nauru Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Somalia South Africa Solomon Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Establishments and disestablishments categories Establishments Disestablishments Works and introductions categories Works Introductions Works entering the public domain 2025 at Wikipedia's sister projects Media from Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Taxa from Wikispecies Discussions from Meta-Wiki ...more edit section v t e Current events by month 2025 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2024 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2023 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2022 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2021 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2020 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2019 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2018 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2015 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2010 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2009 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2008 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2007 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2006 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2005 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2004 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2003 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2002 January February March April May June July August September October November December Portal:Current events Calendars Discover Wikipedia using portals List of all portals The arts portal Biography portal Current events portal Geography portal History portal Mathematics portal Science portal Society portal Technology portal Random portal WikiProject Portals Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events&oldid=1234748158 " Categories : All portals 2025 by day Current events portal 2025 Current events WikiProject Current events History portals Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages protected against vandalism Portals with triaged subpages from October 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer