https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Physics

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal maintenance status: (June 2018) This portal is manually maintained by Northamerica1000 . Please contact these user(s) when you plan to make significant changes. This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software , and seek consensus before making major changes. Learn how to update the maintenance information here . Wikipedia portal for content related to Physics Portal topics - ( Random portal ) Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology The Physics Portal Physics is the scientific study of matter , its fundamental constituents , its motion and behavior through space and time , and the related entities of energy and force . It is one of the most fundamental scientific disciplines. A scientist who specializes in the field of physics is called a physicist . Physics is one of the oldest academic disciplines . Over much of the past two millennia, physics, chemistry , biology , and certain branches of mathematics were a part of natural philosophy , but during the Scientific Revolution in the 17th century, these natural sciences branched into separate research endeavors. Physics intersects with many interdisciplinary areas of research, such as biophysics and quantum chemistry , and the boundaries of physics are not rigidly defined. New ideas in physics often explain the fundamental mechanisms studied by other sciences and suggest new avenues of research in these and other academic disciplines such as mathematics and philosophy. Advances in physics often enable new technologies . For example, advances in the understanding of electromagnetism , solid-state physics , and nuclear physics led directly to the development of technologies that have transformed modern society, such as television, computers, domestic appliances , and nuclear weapons ; advances in thermodynamics led to the development of industrialization; and advances in mechanics inspired the development of calculus . ( Full article... ) Refresh with new selections below (purge) Featured article - show another This is a Featured article , which represents some of the best content on English Wikipedia. An Alpha calutron tank removed from the magnet for recovery of uranium-235 A calutron is a mass spectrometer originally designed and used for separating the isotopes of uranium . It was developed by Ernest Lawrence during the Manhattan Project and was based on his earlier invention, the cyclotron . Its name was derived from California University Cyclotron, in tribute to Lawrence's institution, the University of California , where it was invented. Calutrons were used in the industrial-scale Y-12 uranium enrichment plant at the Clinton Engineer Works in Oak Ridge, Tennessee . The enriched uranium produced was used in the Little Boy atomic bomb that was detonated over Hiroshima on 6 August 1945. The calutron is a type of sector mass spectrometer , an instrument in which a sample is ionized and then accelerated by electric fields and deflected by magnetic fields . The ions ultimately collide with a plate and produce a measurable electric current . Since the ions of the different isotopes have the same electric charge but different masses, the heavier isotopes are deflected less by the magnetic field, causing the beam of particles to separate into several beams by mass, striking the plate at different locations. The mass of the ions can be calculated according to the strength of the field and the charge of the ions. During World War II , calutrons were developed to use this principle to obtain substantial quantities of high-purity uranium-235, by taking advantage of the small mass difference between uranium isotopes. ( Full article... ) List of Featured articles AdS/CFT correspondence Archimedes Astrophysics Data System Atom Atomic line filter Big Bang Niels Bohr James E. Boyd (scientist) James Chadwick Chicago Pile-1 Jürgen Ehlers Electron Leonhard Euler Eye (cyclone) Enrico Fermi Richard Feynman Ursula Franklin Gamma-ray burst General relativity Introduction to general relativity Josiah Willard Gibbs Gliding Heavy metals Herbig–Haro object History of Mars observation Hubble Deep Field Johannes Kepler Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector M-theory Magnetosphere of Jupiter Manhattan Project Mechanical filter Mirror symmetry (string theory) Montreal Laboratory Emmy Noether Numerical weather prediction Oganesson Mark Oliphant Gerard K. O'Neill J. Robert Oppenheimer Periodic table Photon Planets beyond Neptune Plutonium Quark Isidor Isaac Rabi Radiocarbon dating Redshift Louis Slotin Smyth Report Speed of light Star Sun Supernova Edward Teller Tornado Trinity (nuclear test) Tropical cyclone Uranium White dwarf Wind ZETA (fusion reactor) edit Did you know - show different entries A moonbow over Kihei, Maui, Hawaii, US ...that a moonbow , or night-time rainbow , can be seen on strongly-moonlit nights? ...that Isaac Newton originally defined force as the rate of change of momentum with respect to time ? More did you know facts edit Selected image - show another James Clerk Maxwell James Clerk Maxwell FRS FRSE (13 June 1831 – 5 November 1879) was a Scottish [ 1 ] theoretical physicist . [ 2 ] His most prominent achievement was formulating classical electromagnetic theory . This unites all previously unrelated observations, experiments, and equations of electricity , magnetism , and optics into a consistent theory. [ 3 ] Maxwell's equations demonstrate that electricity, magnetism and light are all manifestations of the same phenomenon, namely the electromagnetic field . Subsequently, all other classic laws or equations of these disciplines became simplified cases of Maxwell's equations. Maxwell's achievements concerning electromagnetism have been called the "second great unification in physics", [ 4 ] after the first one realised by Isaac Newton . More selected images edit Related portals Astronomy Chemistry Energy Science History of science Mathematics Technology Earth sciences Good articles - load new batch These are Good articles , which meet a core set of high editorial standards. Image 1 Title page of the first edition of the book, published in 1910 A History of the Theories of Aether and Electricity is any of three books written by British mathematician Sir Edmund Taylor Whittaker FRS FRSE on the history of electromagnetic theory , covering the development of classical electromagnetism , optics , and aether theories . The book's first edition, subtitled from the Age of Descartes to the Close of the Nineteenth Century , was published in 1910 by Longmans, Green . The book covers the history of aether theories and the development of electromagnetic theory up to the 20th century. A second, extended and revised, edition consisting of two volumes was released in the early 1950s by Thomas Nelson , expanding the book's scope to include the first quarter of the 20th century. The first volume, subtitled The Classical Theories , was published in 1951 and served as a revised and updated edition to the first book. The second volume, subtitled The Modern Theories (1900–1926) , was published two years later in 1953, extended this work covering the years 1900 to 1926. Notwithstanding a notorious controversy on Whittaker's views on the history of special relativity , covered in volume two of the second edition, the books are considered authoritative references on the history of electricity and magnetism as well as classics in the history of physics . The original book was well-received, but it ran out of print by the early 1920s. Whittaker believed that a new edition should include the developments in physics that took part at the turn of the twentieth century and declined to have it reprinted. He wrote the second edition of the book after his retirement and published The Classical Theories in 1951, which also received critical acclaim. In the 1953 second volume, The Modern Theories (1900–1926) , Whittaker argued that Henri Poincaré and Hendrik Lorentz developed the theory of special relativity before Albert Einstein , a claim that has been rejected by most historians of science. Though overall reviews of the book were generally positive, due to its role in this relativity priority dispute , it receives far fewer citations than the other volumes, outside of references to the controversy. ( Full article... ) Image 2 Seaborg in 1964 Glenn Theodore Seaborg ( / ˈ s iː b ɔːr ɡ / SEE -borg ; April 19, 1912 – February 25, 1999) was an American chemist whose involvement in the synthesis , discovery and investigation of ten transuranium elements earned him a share of the 1951 Nobel Prize in Chemistry . His work in this area also led to his development of the actinide concept and the arrangement of the actinide series in the periodic table of the elements . Seaborg spent most of his career as an educator and research scientist at the University of California, Berkeley , serving as a professor, and, between 1958 and 1961, as the university's second chancellor. He advised ten US presidents—from Harry S. Truman to Bill Clinton —on nuclear policy and was Chairman of the United States Atomic Energy Commission from 1961 to 1971, where he pushed for commercial nuclear energy and the peaceful applications of nuclear science. Throughout his career, Seaborg worked for arms control. He was a signatory to the Franck Report and contributed to the Limited Test Ban Treaty , the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty . He was a well-known advocate of science education and federal funding for pure research. Toward the end of the Eisenhower administration , he was the principal author of the Seaborg Report on academic science, and, as a member of President Ronald Reagan 's National Commission on Excellence in Education , he was a key contributor to its 1983 report " A Nation at Risk ". ( Full article... ) Image 3 In a nuclear weapon , a tamper is an optional layer of dense material surrounding the fissile material . It is used in nuclear weapon design to reduce the critical mass and to delay the expansion of the reacting material through its inertia , which delays the thermal expansion of the fissioning fuel mass, keeping it supercritical longer. Often the same layer serves both as tamper and as neutron reflector . The weapon disintegrates as the reaction proceeds, and this stops the reaction, so the use of a tamper makes for a longer-lasting, more energetic and more efficient explosion. The yield can be further enhanced using a fissionable tamper. The first nuclear weapons used heavy natural uranium or tungsten carbide tampers, but a heavy tamper necessitates a larger high-explosive implosion system and makes the entire device larger and heavier. The primary stage of a modern thermonuclear weapon may instead use a lightweight beryllium reflector, which is also transparent to X-rays when ionized , allowing the primary's energy output to escape quickly to be used in compressing the secondary stage. More exotic tamper materials such as gold are used for special purposes like emitting large amounts of X-rays or altering the amount of nuclear fallout . ( Full article... ) Image 4 Chien-Shiung Wu , after whom the Wu experiment is named, designed the experiment and led the team that carried out the test of the conservation of parity in 1956. The Wu experiment was a particle and nuclear physics experiment conducted in 1956 by the Chinese-American physicist Chien-Shiung Wu in collaboration with the Low Temperature Group of the US National Bureau of Standards . The experiment's purpose was to establish whether conservation of parity , which was previously established in the electromagnetic and strong interactions, also applied to weak interactions . If parity conservation were universal, particle decays governed by the weak interaction would behave similarly to particle decays involving the other interactions. A parity transformation negates the coordinates in a theory. If the predictions of the theory are not altered, it is said to "conserve parity". A parity transformation creates a mirror image. In mirror images objects spinning clockwise appear to spin counterclockwise. The Wu experiment created an atomic system with spin, then compared weak-interaction particle decay for spins clockwise and anti-clockwise. The experiment established that conservation of parity was violated by the weak interaction, thus providing a way to operationally define left and right . This result was not expected by the physics community, which had previously regarded parity as a symmetry that applied to all forces of nature. Tsung-Dao Lee and Chen-Ning Yang , the theoretical physicists who originated the idea of parity nonconservation and proposed the experiment, received the 1957 Nobel Prize in Physics for this result. While not awarded the Nobel Prize, Chien-Shiung Wu 's role in the discovery was mentioned in the Nobel Prize acceptance speech of Yang and Lee, but she was not honored until 1978, when she was awarded the first Wolf Prize . ( Full article... ) Image 5 Lawrence in 1939 Ernest Orlando Lawrence (August 8, 1901 – August 27, 1958) was an American accelerator physicist who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1939 for his invention of the cyclotron . He is known for his work on uranium-isotope separation for the Manhattan Project , as well as for founding the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory . A graduate of the University of South Dakota and University of Minnesota , Lawrence obtained a PhD in physics at Yale in 1925. In 1928, he was hired as an associate professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley , becoming the youngest full professor there two years later. In its library one evening, Lawrence was intrigued by a diagram of an accelerator that produced high-energy particles . He contemplated how it could be made compact, and came up with an idea for a circular accelerating chamber between the poles of an electromagnet . The result was the first cyclotron. ( Full article... ) Image 6 Katharine " Kay " Way (February 20, 1902 – December 9, 1995) was an American physicist best known for her work on the Nuclear Data Project. During World War II , she worked for the Manhattan Project at the Metallurgical Laboratory in Chicago . She became an adjunct professor at Duke University in 1968. ( Full article... ) Image 7 Robert Fox Bacher (August 31, 1905 – November 18, 2004) was an American nuclear physicist and one of the leaders of the Manhattan Project . Born in Loudonville, Ohio , Bacher obtained his undergraduate degree and doctorate from the University of Michigan , writing his 1930 doctoral thesis under the supervision of Samuel Goudsmit on the Zeeman effect of the hyperfine structure of atomic levels. After graduate work at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), he accepted a job at Columbia University . In 1935 he accepted an offer from Hans Bethe to work with him at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York . It was there that Bacher collaborated with Bethe on his book Nuclear Physics. A: Stationary States of Nuclei (1936), the first of three books that would become known as the "Bethe Bible". In December 1940, Bacher joined the Radiation Laboratory at MIT, although he did not immediately cease his research at Cornell into the neutron cross section of cadmium . The Radiation Laboratory was organized into two sections, one for incoming radar signals, and one for outgoing radar signals. Bacher was appointed to handle the incoming signals section. Here he gained valuable experience in administration, coordinating not just the efforts of his scientists, but also those of General Electric and RCA . In 1942, Bacher was approached by Robert Oppenheimer to join the Manhattan Project at its new laboratory in Los Alamos, New Mexico . It was at Bacher's insistence that Los Alamos became a civilian rather than a military laboratory. At Los Alamos, Bacher headed the project's P (Physics) Division, and later its G (Gadget) Division. Bacher worked closely with Oppenheimer, and the two men discussed the project's progress on a daily basis. ( Full article... ) Image 8 A Type Ia supernova (read: "type one-A") is a supernova that occurs in binary systems (two stars orbiting one another) in which one of the stars is a white dwarf . The other star can be anything from a giant star to an even smaller white dwarf. Physically, carbon–oxygen white dwarfs with a low rate of rotation are limited to below 1.44 solar masses ( M ☉ ). Beyond this " critical mass ", they reignite and in some cases trigger a supernova explosion; this critical mass is often referred to as the Chandrasekhar mass, but is marginally different from the absolute Chandrasekhar limit , where electron degeneracy pressure is unable to prevent catastrophic collapse. If a white dwarf gradually accretes mass from a binary companion, or merges with a second white dwarf, the general hypothesis is that a white dwarf's core will reach the ignition temperature for carbon fusion as it approaches the Chandrasekhar mass. Within a few seconds of initiation of nuclear fusion, a substantial fraction of the matter in the white dwarf undergoes a runaway reaction, releasing enough energy ( 1 × 10 44 J ) to unbind the star in a supernova explosion. ( Full article... ) Image 9 Forces can be described as a push or pull on an object. They can be due to phenomena such as gravity , magnetism , or anything that might cause a mass to accelerate. In physics , a force is an action that can cause an object to change its velocity or its shape, or to resist other forces, or to cause changes of pressure in a fluid. In mechanics, force makes ideas like ' pushing' or ' pulling' mathematically precise. Because the magnitude and direction of a force are both important, force is a vector quantity ( force vector ). The SI unit of force is the newton (N) , and force is often represented by the symbol F . Force plays an important role in classical mechanics. The concept of force is central to all three of Newton's laws of motion . Types of forces often encountered in classical mechanics include elastic , frictional , contact or "normal" forces , and gravitational . The rotational version of force is torque , which produces changes in the rotational speed of an object. In an extended body, each part applies forces on the adjacent parts; the distribution of such forces through the body is the internal mechanical stress . In the case of multiple forces, if the net force on an extended body is zero the body is in equilibrium. ( Full article... ) Image 10 Hurricanes Imelda (left) and Humberto (right) displaying the fujiwhara effect during the 2025 Atlantic hurricane season . The Fujiwhara effect , sometimes referred to as the Fujiwhara interaction or binary interaction , is a phenomenon that occurs when two nearby cyclonic vortices move around each other and close the distance between the circulations of their corresponding low-pressure areas . The effect is named after Sakuhei Fujiwhara , the Japanese meteorologist who initially described the effect.  Binary interaction of smaller circulations can cause the development of a larger cyclone or cause two cyclones to merge into one. Extratropical cyclones typically engage in binary interaction when within 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi) of one another, while tropical cyclones typically interact within 1,400 kilometres (870 mi) of each other. Fujiwhara described the effect in a 1921 paper which was based in an 1889 paper by a Japanese researcher and eventually gained popularity in the United States after World War II . ( Full article... ) Image 11 Police photograph of Fuchs ( c. 1940 ) Klaus Emil Julius Fuchs (29 December 1911 – 28 January 1988) was a German theoretical physicist , atomic spy , and communist who supplied information from the American, British, and Canadian Manhattan Project to the Soviet Union during and shortly after World War II . While at the Los Alamos Laboratory , Fuchs was responsible for many significant theoretical calculations relating to the first nuclear weapons and, later, early models of the hydrogen bomb . After his conviction in 1950, he served nine years in prison in the United Kingdom, then migrated to East Germany where he resumed his career as a physicist and scientific leader. The son of a Lutheran pastor, Fuchs attended the University of Leipzig , where his father was a professor of theology , and became involved in student politics, joining the student branch of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), and the Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold , an SPD-allied paramilitary organisation. He was expelled from the SPD in 1932, and joined the Communist Party of Germany (KPD). He went into hiding after the 1933 Reichstag fire and the subsequent persecution of communists in Nazi Germany, and fled to the United Kingdom, where he received his PhD from the University of Bristol under the supervision of Nevill Francis Mott , and his DSc from the University of Edinburgh , where he worked as an assistant to Max Born . ( Full article... ) Image 12 Figure 1. The light path through a Michelson interferometer . The two light rays with a common source combine at the half-silvered mirror to reach the detector. They may either interfere constructively (strengthening in intensity) if their light waves arrive in phase, or interfere destructively (weakening in intensity) if they arrive out of phase, depending on the exact distances between the three mirrors. Interferometry is a technique which uses the interference of superimposed waves to extract information. Interferometry typically uses electromagnetic waves and is an important investigative technique in the fields of astronomy , fiber optics , engineering metrology , optical metrology , oceanography , seismology , spectroscopy (and its applications to chemistry ), quantum mechanics , nuclear and particle physics , plasma physics , biomolecular interactions , surface profiling, microfluidics , mechanical stress/strain measurement, velocimetry , optometry , and making holograms . Interferometers are devices that extract information from interference. They are widely used in science and industry for the measurement of microscopic displacements, refractive index changes and surface irregularities. In the case with most interferometers, light from a single source is split into two beams that travel in different optical paths , which are then combined again to produce interference; two incoherent sources can also be made to interfere under some circumstances. The resulting interference fringes give information about the difference in optical path lengths . In analytical science, interferometers are used to measure lengths and the shape of optical components with nanometer precision; they are the highest-precision length measuring instruments in existence.  In Fourier transform spectroscopy they are used to analyze light containing features of absorption or emission associated with a substance or mixture. An astronomical interferometer consists of two or more separate telescopes that combine their signals, offering a resolution equivalent to that of a telescope of diameter equal to the largest separation between its individual elements. ( Full article... ) Image 13 Figure 1. Steam devils on Lake Michigan 31 January 1971, from the paper which first named and reported the phenomenon. A steam devil is a small, weak whirlwind over water (or sometimes wet land) that has drawn fog into the vortex , thus rendering it visible. They form over large lakes and oceans during cold air outbreaks while the water is still relatively warm, and can be an important mechanism in vertically transporting moisture. They are a component of sea smoke . Smaller steam devils and steam whirls can form over geyser basins even in warm weather because of the very high water temperatures.  Although observations of steam devils are generally quite rare, hot springs in Yellowstone Park produce them on a daily basis. ( Full article... ) Image 14 Fourteenth-century drawing of angels turning the celestial spheres Ancient, medieval and Renaissance astronomers and philosophers developed many different theories about the dynamics of the celestial spheres .  They explained the motions of the various nested spheres in terms of the materials of which they were made, external movers such as celestial intelligences, and internal movers such as motive souls or impressed forces.  Most of these models were qualitative, although a few of them incorporated quantitative analyses that related speed, motive force and resistance. ( Full article... ) Image 15 Norman Foster Ramsey Jr. (August 27, 1915 – November 4, 2011) was an American physicist who was awarded the 1989 Nobel Prize in Physics for the invention of the separated oscillatory field method (see Ramsey interferometry ), which had important applications in the construction of atomic clocks . A physics professor at Harvard University for most of his career, Ramsey also held several posts with such government and international agencies as NATO and the United States Atomic Energy Commission . Among his other accomplishments are helping to found the United States Department of Energy 's Brookhaven National Laboratory and Fermilab . ( Full article... ) More good articles edit December anniversaries 1610 – Galileo Galilei observes phases of Venus . 1900 - The peer reviewed journal " Nature " reports on Duddell's " Singing Arc " American Physical Society . 1942 - First self-sustained nuclear chain reaction at the University of Chicago under the supervision of Enrico Fermi . American Physical Society 1968 – Apollo 8 Launched 1995 – Hubble Deep Field images taken. Births 1852 - Henri Becquerel 1900 - George Eugene Uhlenbeck 25 December, 1642 - Isaac Newton 5 December, 1901 - Werner Heisenberg 18 December, 1856 - J. J. Thomson More anniversaries General images The following are images from various physics-related articles on Wikipedia. Image 1 An engraving of Benjamin Franklin 's kite experiment used to study lightning . (from History of physics ) Image 2 Cartesian coordinate system was introduced by René Descartes (from History of physics ) Image 3 Johannes Kepler 's first law of planetary motion states that planets move in elliptical orbits about the Sun. (from History of physics ) Image 4 Image of X-ray diffraction pattern from a protein crystal (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 5 A magnet levitating above a high-temperature superconductor . Today some physicists are working to understand high-temperature superconductivity using the AdS/CFT correspondence. (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 6 Computer simulation of nanogears made of fullerene molecules. It is hoped that advances in nanoscience will lead to machines working on the molecular scale. (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 7 One possible signature of a Higgs boson from a simulated proton –proton collision. It decays almost immediately into two jets of hadrons and two electrons, visible as lines. (from History of physics ) Image 8 Maxwell's demon , thought experiment by James Clerk Maxwell to describe the kinetic theory of gases and describe how a microscopic creature could lead to violations of the second law of thermodynamics . (from History of physics ) Image 9 Newton's cannonball , a though experiment by Newton relating the motion of a projectile and orbiting of planets. (from History of physics ) Image 10 The Standard Model (from History of physics ) Image 11 Sir Isaac Newton (1642–1727) (from History of physics ) Image 12 A Feynman diagram representing (left to right) the production of a photon (blue sine wave ) from the annihilation of an electron and its complementary antiparticle , the positron . The photon becomes a quark – antiquark pair and a gluon (green spiral) is released. (from History of physics ) Image 13 James Prescott Joule 's apparatus for measuring the mechanical equivalent of heat which the " work " of the falling weight is converted into the " heat " of agitation in the water. (from History of physics ) Image 14 The first Bose–Einstein condensate observed in a gas of ultracold rubidium atoms. The blue and white areas represent higher density. (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 15 Hydrogen emission spectrum is discrete (here in log scale). The lines can only be explained with quantum mechanics. (from History of physics ) Image 16 Chien-Shiung Wu worked on parity violation in 1956 and announced her results in January 1957. (from History of physics ) Image 17 Richard Feynman 's Los Alamos ID badge (from History of physics ) Image 18 Galileo Galilei (1564–1642), early proponent of the modern scientific worldview and method (from History of physics ) Image 19 Magdeburg hemispheres , an experiment by Otto von Guericke where two metal hemispheres are held together by vacuum and cannot be separated even if largue forces are applied. (from History of physics ) Image 20 Crookes tube used to study cathode rays . It lead to the discovery of the electron by J. J. Thomson . (from History of physics ) Image 21 Star maps by the 11th century Chinese polymath Su Song are the oldest known woodblock-printed star maps to have survived to the present day. This example, dated 1092, employs the cylindrical equirectangular projection . (from History of physics ) Image 22 A page from al-Khwārizmī 's Algebra . (from History of physics ) Image 23 The ancient Greek mathematician Archimedes , developer of ideas regarding fluid mechanics and buoyancy . (from History of physics ) Image 24 The Voltaic pile , the first battery was invented by Alessandro Volta in 1800 (from History of physics ) Image 25 Classical physics ( Rayleigh–Jeans law , black line) failed to explain black-body radiation – the so-called ultraviolet catastrophe . The quantum description ( Planck's law , colored lines) is said to be modern physics . (from Modern physics ) Image 26 The quantum Hall effect : Components of the Hall resistivity as a function of the external magnetic field (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 27 The Hindu-Arabic numeral system. The inscriptions on the edicts of Ashoka (3rd century BCE) display this number system being used by the Imperial Mauryas . (from History of physics ) Image 28 Heike Kamerlingh Onnes and Johannes van der Waals with the helium liquefactor at Leiden in 1908 (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 29 Aristotle (384–322 BCE ) (from History of physics ) Image 30 A replica of the first point-contact transistor in Bell labs (from Condensed matter physics ) Image 31 Albert Einstein (1879–1955), ca. 1905 (from History of physics ) Image 32 Classical physics is usually concerned with everyday conditions: speeds are much lower than the speed of light , sizes are much greater than that of atoms, yet very small in astronomical terms. Modern physics, however, is concerned with high velocities, small distances, and very large energies. (from Modern physics ) Image 33 Ibn al-Haytham ( c. 965–1040 ). (from History of physics ) Image 34 Einstein proposed that gravitation results from masses (or their equivalent energies) curving ("bending") the spacetime in which they exist, altering the paths they follow within it. (from History of physics ) Image 35 Heliocentric model proposed in 1543 by Nicolaus Copernicus (from History of physics ) Image 36 Replica of William Herschel 's telescope used to discover Uranus (from History of physics ) Image 37 Composite montage comparing Jupiter ( left ) and its four Galilean moons ( from top : Io , Europa , Ganymede , Callisto ) (from History of physics ) Image 38 Christiaan Huygens (1629–1695) (from History of physics ) Image 39 Marie Skłodowska-Curie (1867–1934) received Nobel prizes in physics (1903) and chemistry (1911). (from History of physics ) Image 40 1927 Solvay Conference included prominent physicists Albert Einstein , Werner Heisenberg , Max Planck , Hendrik Lorentz , Niels Bohr , Marie Curie , Erwin Schrödinger , Paul Dirac (from History of physics ) edit Categories Category puzzle Fundamentals : Concepts in physics | Constants | Physical quantities | Units of measure | Mass | Length | Time | Space | Energy | Matter | Force | Gravity | Electricity | Magnetism | Waves Basic physics : Mechanics | Electromagnetism | Statistical mechanics | Thermodynamics | Quantum mechanics | Theory of relativity | Optics | Acoustics Specific fields : Acoustics | Astrophysics | Atomic physics | Molecular physics | Optical physics | Computational physics | Condensed matter physics | Nuclear physics | Particle physics | Plasma physics Tools : Detectors | Interferometry | Measurement | Radiometry | Spectroscopy | Transducers Background : Physicists | History of physics | Philosophy of physics | Physics education | Physics journals | Physics organizations Other : Fiction about physics | Physics lists | Physics software | Physics stubs All physics categories edit Physics topics Classical physics traditionally includes the fields of mechanics , optics , electricity , magnetism , acoustics and thermodynamics . The term Modern physics is normally used for fields which rely heavily on quantum theory , including quantum mechanics , atomic physics , nuclear physics , particle physics and condensed matter physics . General and special relativity are usually considered to be part of modern physics as well. Fundamental Concepts Classical Physics Modern Physics Cross Discipline Topics Continuum Solid Mechanics Fluid Mechanics Geophysics Motion Classical Mechanics Analytical mechanics Mathematical Physics Kinetics Kinematics Kinematic chain Robotics Matter Classical states Modern states Nanotechnology Energy Chemical Physics Plasma Physics Materials Science Cold Cryophysics Cryogenics Superconductivity Heat Heat transfer Transport Phenomena Combustion Entropy Thermodynamics Statistical mechanics Phase transitions Particle Particulates Particle physics Particle accelerator Antiparticle Antimatter Annihilation physics Gamma ray Waves Oscillation Quantum oscillation Vibration Gravity Gravitation Gravitational wave Celestial mechanics Vacuum Pressure physics Vacuum state physics Quantum fluctuation Random Statistics Stochastic process Brownian motion Spacetime Special Relativity General Relativity Black holes Quantum Quantum mechanics Quantum field theory Quantum computing Radiation Radioactivity Radioactive decay Cosmic ray Light Optics Quantum optics Photonics Electrons Solid State Condensed Matter Symmetry breaking Electricity Electrical circuit Electronics Integrated circuit Electromagnetism Electrodynamics Quantum Electrodynamics Chemical Bonds Strong interaction Nuclear Physics Quantum Chromodynamics Quark model Weak interaction Atomic Physics Electroweak theory Radioactivity Standard Model Fundamental interaction Grand Unified Theory Higgs boson Information Information science Quantum information Holographic principle Life Biophysics Quantum Biology Astrobiology Conscience Neurophysics Quantum mind Quantum brain dynamics Cosmos Astrophysics Cosmology Observable universe Cosmogony Big Bang Mathematical universe Multiverse Chaos Chaos theory Quantum chaos Perturbation theory Complexity Dynamical system Complex system Emergence Quantization Canonical quantization Loop quantum gravity Spin foam Unification Quantum gravity String theory Theory of Everything edit More recognized content Extended content This is a list of recognized content, updated weekly by JL-Bot ( talk · contribs ) (typically on Saturdays). There is no need to edit the list yourself. If an article is missing from the list, make sure it is tagged (e.g. {{ WikiProject Physics }} ) or categorized correctly and wait for the next update. See WP:RECOG for configuration options. Good articles 2019 revision of the SI Harold Agnew Alhazen's problem Samuel King Allison Luis Walter Alvarez Ames Project Elda Emma Anderson Animal echolocation Antimetric electrical network Aristotle Astronomy Atmosphere of Uranus History of atomic theory Avogadro constant Robert Bacher Kenneth Bainbridge Violin acoustics Hans Bethe Francis Birch (geophysicist) Black hole Aage Bohr Max Born Bouncing ball Norris Bradbury Hugh Bradner Calutron Girls Celestial spheres Charm quark Robert F. Christy Clapotis John Cockcroft Arthur Compton CT scan Condensed matter physics Edward Condon Henri Coutard Edward Creutz Charles Critchfield Marie Curie Joan Curran Cyclone Cyclotron DU spectrophotometer Harry Daghlian Deep Impact (spacecraft) Beryl May Dent Diffusion damping Dirac delta function Dynamics of the celestial spheres Ecliptic Albert Einstein Einstein–Szilard letter Elastance Electricity Electron backscatter diffraction Electron diffraction Extended Wulff constructions Ronald Fedkiw Val Logsdon Fitch Fiveling Foucault's measurements of the speed of light Fizeau experiment Flerovium Floating Clouds (artwork) Force Foster's reactance theorem James Franck Augustin-Jean Fresnel Frisch–Peierls memorandum Frog battery Klaus Fuchs Fujiwhara effect Carl Friedrich Gauss Joseph Gelders Geostationary orbit Glass Glass fiber Gleason's theorem Maria Goeppert Mayer Alvin C. Graves Gravity bong John T. Hayward Hilbert space A History of the Theories of Aether and Electricity Robert Hooke Christiaan Huygens Ice Icosahedral twins Mujaddid Ahmed Ijaz Insect flight Interferometry Mary Jackson (engineer) Brian Josephson Donald William Kerst Kilogram Laser Inertial Fusion Energy Ernest Lawrence Hilde Levi Joel S. Levine Magnetic resonance imaging Magnetoreception Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 satellite communications Margaret Eliza Maltby John Marburger Leslie H. Martin Harrie Massey Maximum sustained wind James Clerk Maxwell Boyce McDaniel Metric system Mobility analogy Molniya orbit Philip Morrison Seth Neddermeyer Negative resistance John von Neumann Isaac Newton Newton's theorem of revolving orbits Nobel Prize in Physics Noctilucent cloud Nuclear power Nucleon magnetic moment Adriana Ocampo PSR B1937+21 Rudolf Peierls William Penney, Baron Penney Bruno Pontecorvo Chanda Prescod-Weinstein Pythagoras Quantum Reality Quantum electrodynamics Quantum mechanics RaLa Experiment James Rainwater C. V. Raman Norman Ramsey Jr. Frederick Reines Representation theory of the Lorentz group George T. Reynolds Bruno Rossi Joseph Rotblat S-1 Executive Committee Safety of high-energy particle collision experiments Matthew Sands Schiehallion experiment Glenn T. Seaborg Emilio Segrè Arne Slettebak Henry DeWolf Smyth Steam devil Carl Størmer Subtle is the Lord Leo Szilard Tamper (nuclear weapon) Nikola Tesla Thin Man (nuclear bomb) Charles Allen Thomas Ernest Titterton Triboelectric effect Type II supernova Type Ia supernova Type Ib and Ic supernovae Stanisław Ulam Universe John Clive Ward Waterspout Katharine Way Alvin M. Weinberg Wetting John Archibald Wheeler E. T. Whittaker Eugene Wigner Robert R. Wilson Wind turbine Leona Woods Wow! signal Chien-Shiung Wu Wu Zhonghua Wu experiment Walter Zinn Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Commons Free media repository Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Sources ^ "James Clerk Maxwell" . Encyclopædia Britannica . Retrieved 24 February 2010 . Scottish physicist best known for his formulation of electromagnetic theory ^ James Clerk Maxwell ^ "James Clerk Maxwell" . IEEE Global History Network. 2011 . Retrieved 2011-06-21 . ^ Nahin, P.J. (1992). "Maxwell's grand unification". IEEE Spectrum . 29 (3): 45. doi : 10.1109/6.123329 . Portals on Wikipedia Discover Wikipedia using portals List of all portals The arts portal Biography portal Current events portal Geography portal History portal Mathematics portal Science portal Society portal Technology portal Random portal WikiProject Portals Purge server cache Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Physics&oldid=1260617618 " Categories : All portals Physics Physical science portals Hidden categories: Manually maintained portal pages from June 2018 All manually maintained portal pages Portals with triaged subpages from June 2018 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with named maintainer Random portal component with 11–15 available subpages Pages using Template:Post-nominals with customized linking Random portal component with 26–30 available image subpages Automated article-slideshow portals with 101–200 articles in article list