https://www.wikihow.com/Tech-Help-Pro

Tech Help Pro Learn the skills you need to navigate life, online and offline. Start Your Free Trial Learn tech skills the fast and easy way. Unlimited Access Hundreds of videos over dozens of topics, available on-demand across all of your devices. Master in Minutes Designed in wikiHow’s engaging and easy-to-learn style. Learn the skills you need in minutes. Downloadable Transcripts Access written transcripts of each video tutorial. Gain mastery of tech skills with written, step-by-step instructions. Featured Course: Master 30 Skills in 30 Days Take the Challenge Upgrade your tech skills knowledge in just a few minutes a day with this 30-day challenge from wikiHow. Each day features a short video tutorial that you can watch anytime, anywhere. This Challenge Includes: 30+ exclusive tutorials 7 areas of study Mobile access Completely self-paced Full lifetime access Start Your Free Trial Learn More Professional skill development on your schedule. Start Your Free Trial Why Sign Up? Essential skills to help you navigate any technological challenge. Stay on top of tech skills for the home and workplace. Unlimited, on-demand access to our library of video tutorials. No more waiting on hold for the IT helpline, wikiHow Skills for Work is always here. Quick tutorials and courses that pack a big punch. Learn the exact skill you need in minutes. Sample Preview How to Find Duplicates in Excel Have a sheet that you're working in and want to track down any duplicate values? We can teach you how to find those values with one short video! Play preview Download written video transcript Sign up Learn with Exclusive Premium Tech Courses Quick View TECH 5 Zoom for Beginners Featuring A.J. Aldana, Visual Communications Project Manager 20 lessons 5 min per lesson Quick View SELF IMPROVEMENT 4.9 How to Write an Impressive Cover Letter Featuring Amber Rosenberg, Career Coach 7 lessons 10-15 min per lesson Quick View SELF IMPROVEMENT 5 How to Write a Winning Resume Featuring Lucy Yeh, Career and Life Coach 7 lessons 10-15 min per lesson Quick View TECH 5 5 Must-Have Excel Skills Every Professional Should Know Featuring wikiHow's Excel Expert 5 lessons 15 min per lesson Quick View TECH 5 Mastering Excel: Pivot Tables for Professionals Featuring wikiHow's Excel Expert 5 lessons 15 min per lesson Quick View TECH 4.9 5 Key Photoshop Skills Every User Needs to Know Featuring wikiHow's Photoshop Expert 5 lessons 10 min per lesson Quick View TECH 4.7 6 Time-Saving Shortcuts Every PowerPoint User Should Know Featuring wikiHow's PowerPoint Expert 6 lessons 10 min per lesson Quick View TECH 5 Master 30 Tech Skills in 30 Days Featuring wikiHow's Tech Team 30 lessons 5 min per lesson See more > Start Your Free Trial POPULAR CATEGORIES Web Browser Device Settings Word PowerPoint Gmail Photoshop Slack Excel Mobile Apps Video Editing Get 250+ tutorials across over 20 topics With new videos added weekly, level up your tech skills on a variety of topics and stay ahead of the curve. Start Your Free Trial How to Use Excel Like a Pro How to How to Add a Filter in Excel 0:03:09 Levels Beginner How to How to Use the VLOOKUP in Excel 0:04:38 Levels Advanced How to How to Create a Drop Down List in Excel 0:06:43 Levels Intermediate How to How to Use Pivot Tables in Excel 0:06:15 Levels Advanced How to How to Freeze Cells in Excel 0:00:39 Levels Beginner How to How to Replace Values in Excel 0:02:50 Levels Intermediate How to How to Use an Array Formula in Excel 0:03:22 Levels Advanced How to Edit Your Own Videos and Images How to How to Make a Gradient in Photoshop 0:02:38 Levels Intermediate How to How to Edit a Photo Using Free Tools 0:02:30 Levels Beginner How to How to Combine Layers in Photoshop 0:01:45 Levels Intermediate How to Remove a Person from a Photo Using Photoshop 0:02:08 Levels Advanced How to How to Overlay Pictures on Mac 0:02:55 Levels Intermediate How to How to Put a Voiceover on Tik Tok 0:02:03 Levels Beginner How to How to Open Sketch Files 0:01:45 Levels Beginner Trending Topics Among Users How to How to Check if an iPhone Has a Virus 00:05:21 Levels Beginner How to How to Type on a PDF 0:06:52 Levels Beginner How to Make a Mailing List in Gmail 0:01:38 Levels Intermediate How to Play a Video in a Zoom Meeting 0:01:16 Levels Intermediate How to How to View Downloads on an iPhone 0:01:56 Levels Intermediate How to How to Translate a PDF 0:01:24 Levels Beginner How to How to Check the RAM on Android 00:06:46 Levels Beginner Start Your Free Trial What skill will you learn today? All Featured - Excel Photo & Video Mobile Phones & Apps Productivity Social Media Browsers & Web Filter results Alphabetically By Level By Video Length Clear filters Categories Device Settings Email Excel Facebook Image Editing Instagram PDF Photoshop PowerPoint Word Mobile Apps Gmail Google Google Classroom Google Photos Slack Snapchat TikTok Twitter Video Editing Web Browser WhatsApp YouTube Zoom Lesson Level Beginner Intermediate Advanced Device Desktop Mobile Tablet Operating System Android iOS Mac PC Show videos Get started on your tech education journey today. Start Your Free Trial