https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upholstery_hammer

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Lightweight hand tool for tacking of fabric This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Upholstery hammer" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Upholstery hammer An upholstery hammer (also called a tack hammer ) is a lightweight hammer used for securing upholstery fabric to furniture frames using tacks or small nails. The head of an upholstery hammer is narrow and roughly 12-15mm in diameter. [ 1 ] Commonly they are cast in bronze with fused steel tips. [ 2 ] Many styles of upholstery hammers have two faces, one face being magnetized to aid in the placement of tacks, the other being larger to drive the tacks home. [ 3 ] A patent existed for a magnetized tack hammer as early as 1861, by G. W. Beardslee. [ 4 ] Sometimes, the magnetized face has a split surface to make its magnetic hold stronger. [ citation needed ] Upholstery hammers may also have one end shaped like a claw to make removing tacks easier. [ 3 ] To apply tacks rapidly, an upholsterer will hold tacks in the mouth and spit them, head first, onto the magnetized face of the hammer. [ citation needed ] This gave rise to the phrase "spitting tacks." [ 2 ] Staple guns and hammer tackers have largely replaced this traditional way of tacking as a commercial upholstery technique. The traditional method remains important both in antiques restoration and in hobbyist work. References [ edit ] ^ Jackson, Albert; Day, David (1983). Better Than New: A Practical Guide to Renovating Furniture . Sterling. p. 82. ISBN 978-0-8069-7730-0 . Retrieved 12 February 2024 . ^ a b Law, Alex (10 February 2015). The Upholsterer's Step-by-Step Handbook: A Practical Reference . Macmillan. pp. 16– 17. ISBN 978-1-250-04985-8 . ^ a b Cox, Dorothy M. (1970). Modern Upholstery . Bell. p. 16. ISBN 978-0-7135-1599-2 . Retrieved 12 February 2024 . ^ Scientific American: N.S. 5. 1861 . Scientific American. 1861 . Retrieved 12 February 2024 . Wikimedia Commons has media related to Upholstery hammers . v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking This tool article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Upholstery_hammer&oldid=1296121222 " Categories : Upholstery Hammers Woodworking hand tools Hand tools Tool stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from February 2024 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2024 Commons category link is on Wikidata All stub articles