https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuel_efficiency

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Form of thermal efficiency Infrastructure Grand Coulee Dam Assets and facilities Airports Bridges Broadband Canals Coastal management Critical infrastructure Dams Electricity Energy Hazardous waste Hospitals Irrigation Levees Lighthouses Parks Pipeline Ports Mass transit Public housing State schools Public spaces Rail Roads Sewage treatment Sewerage Sluices Snow removal Solid waste Telecommunications Trails Utilities Water supply Weirs Concepts Asset management Appropriation Lindahl tax Build–operate–transfer Design–bid–build Design–build Earmark European green infrastructure Fixed cost Engineering contracts Externality Government debt Green infrastructure Life-cycle assessment Maintenance Monopoly Property tax Public–private partnership Public capital Public finance Public good Public sector Renovation Replacement (upgrade) Spillover Supply chain Tax Issues and ideas Air traffic control Brownfield Carbon footprint Containerization Congestion pricing Environmental tax Ethanol fuel Fuel tax Groundwater High-speed rail Hybrid vehicles Land-use planning Mobile data terminal Pork barrel Rapid bus transit Recycling Renewables Reverse osmosis Smart grid Smart growth Stormwater Urban sprawl Traffic congestion Transit-oriented development Fuel efficiency Waste-to-energy Weatherization Wireless technology Fields of study Architecture Chemical engineering Civil Electrical Mechanical engineering Public economics Public policy Urban planning Examples Akashi Kaikyo Bridge Trans-Alaska pipeline Autobahn Bicycle parking station Brazilian energy independence Brooklyn Bridge Channel Tunnel Chicago wastewater China's high-speed rail Curtiba rapid bus transit Cycling infrastructure ( history , safety ) Danish wind-power British offshore wind-power Nuclear power in France Solar power in Germany Hoover Dam Hong Kong Int'l Airport Intercity Express Interstate highways Jamnagar Refinery Kansai Int'l Airport Levee Offshore wind port Panama Canal Port of Shanghai San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge Three Gorges Dam Shinkansen Spanish high-speed rail French TGV rail Spanish autovias and autopistas Transcontinental Railroad Power transmission in the USA Wind farm Category Engineering portal v t e Fuel efficiency (or fuel economy ) is a form of thermal efficiency , meaning the ratio of effort to result of a process that converts chemical potential energy contained in a carrier ( fuel ) into kinetic energy or work . Overall fuel efficiency may vary per device, which in turn may vary per application, and this spectrum of variance is often illustrated as a continuous energy profile . Non-transportation applications, such as industry , benefit from increased fuel efficiency, especially fossil fuel power plants or industries dealing with combustion , such as ammonia production during the Haber process . In the context of transport , fuel economy is the energy efficiency of a particular vehicle,  given as a ratio of distance traveled per unit of fuel consumed. It is dependent on several factors  including engine efficiency , transmission design, and tire design. In most countries, using the metric system , fuel economy is stated as "fuel consumption" in liters per 100 kilometers (L/100 km) or kilometers per liter (km/L or kmpl). In a number of countries still using other systems, fuel economy is expressed in miles per gallon (mpg), for example in the US and usually also in the UK ( imperial gallon); there is sometimes confusion as the imperial gallon is 20% larger than the US gallon so that mpg values are not directly comparable.  Traditionally, litres per mil were used in Norway and Sweden , but both have aligned to the EU standard of L/100 km. [ 1 ] Fuel consumption is a more accurate measure of a vehicle's performance because it is a linear relationship while fuel economy leads to distortions in efficiency improvements. [ 2 ] Weight-specific efficiency (efficiency per unit weight) may be stated for freight , and passenger-specific efficiency (vehicle efficiency per passenger) for passenger vehicles. Vehicle design [ edit ] Fuel efficiency is dependent on many parameters of a vehicle, including its engine parameters, aerodynamic drag , weight, AC usage, fuel and rolling resistance . There have been advances in all areas of vehicle design in recent decades. Fuel efficiency of vehicles can also be improved by careful maintenance and driving habits. [ 3 ] Hybrid vehicles use two or more power sources for propulsion. In many designs, a small combustion engine is combined with electric motors.  Kinetic energy which would otherwise be lost to heat during braking is recaptured as electrical power to improve fuel efficiency. The larger batteries in these vehicles power the car's electronics , allowing the engine to shut off and avoid prolonged idling . [ 4 ] Fleet efficiency [ edit ] Trucks' share of US vehicles produced, has tripled since 1975. Though vehicle fuel efficiency has increased within each category, the overall trend toward less efficient types of vehicles has offset some of the benefits of greater fuel economy and reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. [ 5 ] Without the shift towards SUVs, energy use per unit distance could have fallen 30% more than it did from 2010 to 2022. [ 6 ] Fleet efficiency describes the average efficiency of a population of vehicles.  Technological advances in efficiency may be offset by a change in buying habits with a propensity to heavier vehicles that are less fuel-efficient. [ 5 ] Energy efficiency terminology [ edit ] Energy efficiency is similar to fuel efficiency but the input is usually in units of energy such as megajoules (MJ), kilowatt-hours (kW·h), kilocalories (kcal) or British thermal units (BTU). The inverse of "energy efficiency" is " energy intensity ", or the amount of input energy required for a unit of output such as MJ/passenger-km (of passenger transport), BTU/ton-mile or kJ/t-km (of freight transport), GJ/t (for production of steel and other materials), BTU/(kW·h) (for electricity generation), or litres/100 km (of vehicle travel). Litres per 100 km is also a measure of "energy intensity" where the input is measured by the amount of fuel and the output is measured by the distance travelled.  For example: Fuel economy in automobiles . Given a heat value of a fuel, it would be trivial to convert from fuel units (such as litres of gasoline) to energy units (such as MJ) and conversely. But there are two problems with comparisons made using energy units: There are two different heat values for any hydrogen-containing fuel which can differ by several percent (see below). When comparing transportation energy costs, a kilowatt hour of electric energy may require an amount of fuel with heating value of 2 or 3 kilowatt hours to produce it. Energy content of fuel [ edit ] The specific energy content of a fuel is the heat energy obtained when a certain quantity is burned (such as a gallon, litre, kilogram).  It is sometimes called the heat of combustion .  There exists two different values of specific heat energy for the same batch of fuel.  One is the high (or gross) heat of combustion and the other is the low (or net) heat of combustion.  The high value is obtained when, after the combustion, the water in the exhaust is in liquid form.  For the low value, the exhaust has all the water in vapor form (steam).  Since water vapor gives up heat energy when it changes from vapor to liquid, the liquid water value is larger since it includes the latent heat of vaporization of water.  The difference between the high and low values is significant, about 8 or 9%.  This accounts for most of the apparent discrepancy in the heat value of gasoline. In the U.S. (and the table) the high heat values have traditionally been used, but in many other countries, the low heat values are commonly used. Fuel type MJ/L MJ/kg BTU / imp gal BTU/ US gal Research octane number (RON) Regular gasoline /petrol 34.8 ~47 150,100 125,000 Min. 91 Premium gasoline /petrol ~46 Min. 95 Autogas ( LPG ) (60% propane and 40% butane ) 25.5–28.7 ~51 108–110 Ethanol 23.5 31.1 [ 7 ] 101,600 84,600 129 Methanol 17.9 19.9 77,600 64,600 123 Gasohol (10% ethanol and 90% gasoline) 33.7 ~45 145,200 121,000 93/94 E85 (85% ethanol and 15% gasoline) 25.2 ~33 108,878 90,660 100–105 Diesel 38.6 ~48 166,600 138,700 N/A (see cetane) Biodiesel 35.1 39.9 151,600 126,200 N/A (see cetane) Vegetable oil (using 9.00 kcal/g) 34.3 37.7 147,894 123,143 Aviation gasoline 33.5 46.8 144,400 120,200 80-145 Jet fuel , naphtha 35.5 46.6 153,100 127,500 N/A to turbine engines Jet fuel , kerosene 37.6 ~47 162,100 135,000 N/A to turbine engines Liquefied natural gas 25.3 ~55 109,000 90,800 Liquid hydrogen 0 9.3 ~130 40,467 33,696 [ 8 ] Neither the gross heat of combustion nor the net heat of combustion gives the theoretical amount of mechanical energy (work) that can be obtained from the reaction. (This is given by the change in Gibbs free energy , and is around 45.7 MJ/kg for gasoline.) The actual amount of mechanical work obtained from fuel (the inverse of the specific fuel consumption ) depends on the engine. A figure of 17.6 MJ/kg is possible with a gasoline engine, and 19.1 MJ/kg for a diesel engine. See Brake-specific fuel consumption for more information. [ clarification needed ] Transportation [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Energy efficiency in transport . [ edit ] The energy efficiency in transport is the useful travelled distance , of passengers, goods or any type of load; divided by the total energy put into the transport propulsion means. The energy input might be rendered in several different types depending on the type of propulsion, and normally such energy is presented in liquid fuels , electrical energy or food energy . [ 9 ] [ 10 ] The energy efficiency is also occasionally known as energy intensity . [ 11 ] The inverse of the energy efficiency in transport is the energy consumption in transport. Energy efficiency in transport is often described in terms of fuel consumption , fuel consumption being the reciprocal of fuel economy. [ 10 ] Nonetheless, fuel consumption is linked with a means of propulsion which uses liquid fuels , whilst energy efficiency is applicable to any sort of propulsion. To avoid said confusion, and to be able to compare the energy efficiency in any type of vehicle, experts tend to measure the energy in the International System of Units , i.e., joules . Therefore, in the International System of Units, the energy efficiency in transport is measured in terms of metre per joule, or m/J, while the energy consumption in transport is measured in terms of joules per metre, or J/m. The more efficient the vehicle, the more metres it covers with one joule (more efficiency), or the fewer joules it uses to travel over one metre (less consumption). The energy efficiency in transport largely varies by means of transport. Different types of transport range from some hundred kilojoules per kilometre (kJ/km) for a bicycle to tens of megajoules per kilometre (MJ/km) for a helicopter . Via type of fuel used and rate of fuel consumption, energy efficiency is also often related to operating cost ($/km) and environmental emissions (e.g. CO 2 /km). Fuel efficiency of motor vehicles [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Fuel economy in automobiles . [ edit ] Fuel consumption monitor from a 2006 Honda Airwave . The displayed fuel economy is 18.1 km/L (5.5 L/100 km; 43 mpg ‑US ). A Briggs and Stratton Flyer from 1916. Originally an experiment in creating a fuel-saving automobile in the United States, the vehicle weighed only 135 lb (61.2 kg) and was an adaptation of a small gasoline engine originally designed to power a bicycle. [ 12 ] The fuel economy or fuel efficiency of an automobile relates to the distance traveled by a vehicle and the amount of fuel consumed. It can be expressed in terms of the volume of fuel to travel a given distance, such as in or litres per 100 kilometres (L/100 km), or through its inverse, the distance traveled per unit volume of fuel consumed, as in kilometres per litre (km/L) or miles per gallon (mpg). Since fuel economy of vehicles is a significant factor in air pollution , the importation of motor fuel can be a large part of a nation's foreign trade and consumers frequently undervalue fuel efficiency, many countries impose requirements for fuel economy. Different methods are used to approximate the actual performance of the vehicle. The energy in fuel is required to overcome various losses ( wind resistance , tire drag , and others) encountered while propelling the vehicle, and in providing power to vehicle systems such as ignition or air conditioning. Various strategies can be employed to reduce losses at each of the conversions between the chemical energy in the fuel and the kinetic energy of the vehicle. Driver behavior can affect fuel economy; maneuvers such as sudden acceleration and heavy braking waste energy. Electric cars use kilowatt-hours of electricity per 100 kilometres (kWh/100km); in the U.S., an equivalence measure, such as miles per gallon gasoline equivalent (US gallon) has been created to attempt to compare them. Driving technique [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Energy-efficient driving . [ edit ] Energy-efficient driving techniques are used by drivers who wish to reduce their fuel consumption, and thus maximize fuel efficiency. Many drivers have the potential to improve their fuel efficiency significantly. [ 13 ] Simple things such as keeping tires properly inflated, having a vehicle well-maintained and avoiding idling can dramatically improve fuel efficiency. [ 14 ] Careful use of acceleration and deceleration and especially limiting use of high speeds helps efficiency. The use of multiple such techniques is called " hypermiling ". [ 15 ] While these techniques can be applied by any driver, energy-efficient driving (often called "eco-driving") has become a major focus of modern fleet management . As a key part of fleet digitalization , companies use telematics to automatically monitor and manage fuel economy. A fleet telematics system collects data on behaviors that waste fuel, such as harsh acceleration, speeding, and idling. This information is then used in driver scoring applications to identify and coach drivers. [ 13 ] This is often combined with dedicated fuel-management systems that use high-precision fuel level sensors to get exact fuel consumption data and prevent gasoline theft . [ 16 ] Simple fuel-efficiency techniques can result in reduction in fuel consumption without resorting to radical fuel-saving techniques that can be unlawful and dangerous, such as tailgating larger vehicles. Advanced technology [ edit ] The most efficient machines for converting energy to rotary motion are electric motors, as used in electric vehicles . However, electricity is not a primary energy source so the efficiency of the electricity production has also to be taken into account. Railway trains can be powered using electricity, delivered through an additional running rail, overhead catenary system or by on-board generators used in diesel-electric locomotives as common on the US and UK rail networks. Pollution produced from centralised generation of electricity is emitted at a distant power station, rather than "on site". Pollution can be reduced by using more railway electrification and low carbon power for electricity. Some railways, such as the French SNCF and Swiss federal railways derive most, if not 100% of their power, from hydroelectric or nuclear power stations, therefore atmospheric pollution from their rail networks is very low. This was reflected in a study by AEA Technology between a Eurostar train and airline journeys between London and Paris, which showed the trains on average emitting 10 times less CO 2 , per passenger, than planes, helped in part by French nuclear generation. [ 17 ] Hydrogen fuel cells [ edit ] In the future, hydrogen cars may be commercially available. Toyota is test-marketing vehicles powered by hydrogen fuel cells in southern California, where a series of hydrogen fueling stations has been established. Powered either through chemical reactions in a fuel cell that create electricity to drive very efficient electrical motors or by directly burning hydrogen in a combustion engine (near identically to a natural gas vehicle , and similarly compatible with both natural gas and gasoline); these vehicles promise to have near-zero pollution from the tailpipe (exhaust pipe). Potentially the atmospheric pollution could be minimal, provided the hydrogen is made by electrolysis using electricity from non-polluting sources such as solar, wind or hydroelectricity or nuclear. Commercial hydrogen production uses fossil fuels and produces more carbon dioxide than hydrogen. Because there are pollutants involved in the manufacture and destruction of a car and the production, transmission and storage of electricity and hydrogen, the label "zero pollution" applies only to the car's conversion of stored energy into movement. In 2004, a consortium of major auto-makers — BMW , General Motors , Honda , Toyota and Volkswagen / Audi — came up with "Top Tier Detergent Gasoline Standard" to gasoline brands in the US and Canada that meet their minimum standards for detergent content [ 18 ] and do not contain metallic additives. Top Tier gasoline contains higher levels of detergent additives in order to prevent the build-up of deposits (typically, on fuel injector and intake valve ) known to reduce fuel economy and engine performance. [ 19 ] In microgravity [ edit ] How fuel combusts affects how much energy is produced. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has investigated fuel consumption in microgravity . The common distribution of a flame under normal gravity conditions depends on convection , because soot tends to rise to the top of a flame, such as in a candle, making the flame yellow. In microgravity or zero gravity , such as an environment in outer space , convection no longer occurs, and the flame becomes spherical , with a tendency to become more blue and more efficient. There are several possible explanations for this difference, of which the most likely one given is the hypothesis that the temperature is evenly distributed enough that soot is not formed and complete combustion occurs., National Aeronautics and Space Administration, April 2005. Experiments by NASA in microgravity reveal that diffusion flames in microgravity allow more soot to be completely oxidised after they are produced than diffusion flames on Earth, because of a series of mechanisms that behaved differently in microgravity when compared to normal gravity conditions. LSP-1 experiment results , National Aeronautics and Space Administration, April 2005. Premixed flames in microgravity burn at a much slower rate and more efficiently than even a candle on Earth, and last much longer. [ 20 ] See also [ edit ] Energy portal Annual fuel utilization efficiency (AFUE) ACEA agreement Alternative propulsion Camless piston engine Carbon dioxide equivalent Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) EcoAuto (in Canada) Efficient energy use Emission standard Energy content of Biofuel Energy conservation Energy conversion efficiency Energy density FF layout Front-wheel drive Fuel economy in aircraft Fuel economy in automobiles Fuel economy maximising behaviors Fuel efficiency in transportation Gas-guzzler Heating value Jevons paradox Life cycle assessment Low-rolling resistance tires Miles per gallon gasoline equivalent Marine fuel management Twinjet Variable valve timing Unibody Automobile costs Vehicle metrics References [ edit ] ^ "Information on the fuel consumption of new cars" . Archived from the original on 8 September 2019 . Retrieved 7 November 2019 . ^ "Learn More About the Fuel Economy Label for Gasoline Vehicles" . Archived from the original on 2013-07-05. ^ "Simple tips and tricks to increase fuel efficiency of your car | CarSangrah" . CarSangrah . 2018-06-07 . Retrieved 2018-07-24 . ^ "How Hybrids Work" . U.S. Department of Energy . Archived from the original on 2015-07-08 . Retrieved 2014-01-16 . ^ a b "Highlights of the Automotive Trends Report" . EPA.gov . U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 12 December 2022. Archived from the original on 2 September 2023. ^ Cazzola, Pierpaolo; Paoli, Leonardo; Teter, Jacob (November 2023). "Trends in the Global Vehicle Fleet 2023 / Managing the SUV Shift and the EV Transition" (PDF) . Global Fuel Economy Initiative (GFEI). p. 3. doi : 10.7922/G2HM56SV . Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 November 2023. ^ Calculated from heats of formation. Does not correspond exactly to the figure for MJ/L divided by density. ^ Appendix B, Transportation Energy Data Book from the Center for Transportation Analysis of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory ^ "Efficiency" . Retrieved 18 September 2016 . ^ a b Assessment of Fuel Economy Technologies for Light-duty Vehicles . The National Academies Press. 2011. doi : 10.17226/12924 . ISBN 978-0-309-15607-3 . Retrieved 18 September 2016 . ^ "Glossary of energy-related terms" . U.S. Department of Energy . Retrieved 20 September 2016 . ^ Page, Walter Hines; Page, Arthur Wilson (1916). "Man and His Machines" . The World's Work . Vol. XXXIII. Garden City, New York: Doubleday, Page & Co. ^ a b Beusen; et al. (2009). "Using on-board logging devices to study the long-term impact of an eco-driving course" . Transportation Research D . 14 (7): 514– 520. Bibcode : 2009TRPD...14..514B . doi : 10.1016/j.trd.2009.05.009 . Archived from the original on 2013-10-19. ^ "20 Ways to Improve Your Fuel Efficiency and Save Money at the Pump" . Archived from the original on 2016-08-16. ^ http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/hypermiling Merriam Webster dictionary ^ "Staying Ahead Of The Curve: 3 Key Fleet Management Trends For 2023" . Forbes . April 18, 2023 . Retrieved October 7, 2025 . ^ "Rail 10 times better than air in London-Paris CO2 comparison - Transport & Environment" . Archived from the original on 2007-09-28. ^ Top Tier Gasoline Archived 2013-08-15 at the Wayback Machine ^ "Deposit Control Standards" . Archived from the original on 2004-08-06 . Retrieved 2012-10-19 . ^ SOFBAL-2 experiment results Archived 2007-03-12 at the Wayback Machine , National Aeronautics and Space Administration, April 2005. External links [ edit ] This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines . Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references . ( November 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) US Government website on fuel economy UK DfT comparisons on road and rail NASA Offers a $1.5 Million Prize for a Fast and Fuel-Efficient Aircraft Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine Car Fuel Consumption Official Figures Spritmonitor.de "the most fuel efficient cars" - Database of thousands of (mostly German) car owners' actual fuel consumption figures (cf. Spritmonitor ) Searchable fuel economy data from the EPA - United States Environmental Protection Agency penghemat bbm - Alat penghemat bbm Ny Times: A Road Test of Alternative Fuel Visions v t e Public infrastructure Assets and facilities Airports Bridges Broadband Canals Critical infrastructure Dams Electricity generation Energy development Hazardous waste Hospitals Levees Lighthouses Municipal solid waste Parks Ports Public housing Public spaces Public transport Public utilities Public works Rail transport Roads Sewage State schools Telecommunications Town square Wastewater treatment Water supply network Wind power Concepts Appropriation Infrastructure asset management Build–operate–transfer Design–build Earmark Engineering contracts Externality Fixed cost Government debt Infrastructure bond Life-cycle assessment Lindahl tax Maintenance, repair, and operations Natural monopoly Property tax Public capital Public finance Public good Public sector Public–private partnership Renovation Spillover Supply chain Taxation Upgrade Issues and ideas Air traffic control Brownfield land Bus rapid transit Carbon footprint Congestion pricing Containerization Ethanol fuel Fuel efficiency Fuel tax Groundwater High-speed rail Hybrid vehicles Land-use planning Mobile data terminal Pork barrel Recycling Renewable resources Reverse osmosis Smart grid Smart growth Stormwater Sustainable urban infrastructure Traffic congestion Transit-oriented development Urban sprawl Waste-to-energy Weatherization Wireless Fields of study Architecture Civil engineering Electrical engineering Mechanical engineering Public economics Public policy Urban planning Examples Akashi Kaikyō Bridge Autobahn Brooklyn Bridge Bus rapid transit systems Channel Tunnel Controlled-access highway systems Electric power transmission High-speed trains Hong Kong International Airport Hoover Dam Humber Bridge Kansai International Airport Millau Viaduct Nuclear power Offshore wind farms Panama Canal Port of Shanghai San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge Suez Canal Solar power Three Gorges Dam Trans-Alaska pipeline Transcontinental railroads Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fuel_efficiency&oldid=1317110748 " Categories : Energy economics Physical quantities Energy efficiency Transport economics Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia articles needing clarification from July 2019 Articles with excerpts Wikipedia external links cleanup from November 2023