https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Door_furniture

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Items attached to a door or drawer to enhance functionality or appearance Door furniture ( British and Australian English ) or door hardware ( North American English ) refers to any of the items that are attached to a door or a drawer to enhance its functionality or appearance. [ 1 ] Decorative door in Florence , Italy Manual door closer Design of door furniture is an issue to disabled persons who might have difficulty opening or using some kinds of door, and to specialists in interior design as well as those usability professionals which often take their didactic examples from door furniture design and use. [ 1 ] Items of door furniture fall into several categories, described below. Hinges [ edit ] Main article: Hinge A hinge is a component that attaches one edge of a door to the frame, while allowing the other edge to swing from it. It usually consists of a pair of plates, each with a set of open cylindrical rings (the knuckles) attached to them. The knuckles of the two plates are offset from each other and mesh together. A hinge pin is then placed through the two sets of knuckles and usually fixed, to combine the plates and make the hinge a single unit. [ 2 ] One door usually has about three hinges, but it can vary. Handles [ edit ] Main article: Door handle Doors generally have at least one fixed handle, usually accompanied with a latch (see below). A typical "handle set" is composed of the exterior handle, escutcheon, an independent deadbolt, and the interior package (knob or lever).  On some doors the latch is incorporated into a hinged handle that releases when pulled on. See also: Doorknob – A knob or lever on an axle that is rotated to release the bolt; Crash bar or Panic bar; [ 3 ] Flush pull handle for sliding glass door . Locks [ edit ] Main article: Lock A lock is a device that prevents access by those without a key or combination, generally by preventing one or more latches from being operated. [ 4 ] Often accompanied by an escutcheon .  Some doors, particularly older ones, will have a keyhole accompanying the lock. Fasteners [ edit ] Opening a captured draw bolt-style latch An aldrop, a form of draw bolt latch allowing it to be locked Functionally, all but swinging doors use some form of fastener to hold them closed. Typical forms of fasteners include: Latch – A device that allows one to fasten a door from one side (but, if designed to, open from either). Bolt – A (nearly always) metal shaft attached by cleats or a specific form of bracket, that slides into the jamb to fasten a door. [ 2 ] : 89 Draw bolt – A form of crossbar latch where a bolt, held in place by metal bails, is slid to engage a bail fixed to a jamb or mating door.  A small, typically knob, handle is affixed to the bolt to aid grip.  An Aldrop is similar, but incorporates a slot through the handle which can engage a hasp for securing the bolt with a lock. Latch bolt – A bolt that has an angled surface that acts as a wedge to push the bolt in while the door is being closed. By the use of a latch bolt, a door can be closed without having to operate the handle. Deadbolt – Deadbolts usually extend deeper into the frame and are not automatically retractable the way latch bolts are. They are typically manipulated with a lock on the outside and either a lock or a latch on the inside. Deadbolts are generally used for security purposes on external doors in case somebody tries to force the door in or use tools such as a crowbar , hammer , screwdriver , etc. Fastener accessories [ edit ] Strike plate – A plate with a hole in the middle made to receive a bolt. If the strike is for a latch bolt, it typically also includes a small ramped area to help the bolt move inward while the door is being closed. (Also known as just "strike") It's also available as electric strike which allows you to open the door even though the mechanical lock is locked. Dust socket – A metal or plastic socket that sits behind the Strike plate concealing the rough wood of the mortise. Accessories [ edit ] A typical peephole in a door, allowing the person to see who is outside the door without opening it. Numerous devices exist to serve specific purposes related to how a door should (or should not) be used. See: Door chain – A device to secure door opening Door closer – Mechanical or electromagnetic device to close an open door (in the event of a fire) [ 3 ] Door opener – Automatic door opening device activated by motion sensors or pressure pads Door damper – A hydraulic device employed to slow the door's closure Door knocker Door stop – used to prevent the door from opening too far or striking another object [ 3 ] Espagnolette (for a window) Fingerplate Letter box or mail slot Peephole Kickplate [ 5 ] A number of items normally accompany doors but are not necessarily mounted on the door itself, such as doorbells . See also [ edit ] Architectural ironmongery Drawer pull References [ edit ] ^ a b Turner, Susan D. (2021-09-08). "History Lesson of Hardware" . Traditional Building . Retrieved 2024-11-06 . ^ a b Tobias, Scott (2015). Illustrated Guide to Door Hardware: Design, Specification, Selection . John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-118-11261-8 . : 2 ^ a b c George, Louis F. (May 1991). "Constructing the hospital to code" . Doors and Hardware . 55 (5) – via Gale Business. ^ Whalin, Melany (June 2017). "Access control: what architects need to know" . Doors and Hardware . 81 (6) – via Gale Business. ^ BD+C, ed. (March 2014). "14 new ideas for doors and door hardware" . Building Design & Construction . ProQuest 1523675430 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Door furniture . v t e Locks , locksmithing , lock picking , and security alarms Fundamental concepts Access control Authentication Key control Key duplication Key relevance Master keying Password Physical security Rekeying Lock hardware Bitting Interchangeable core Key blank Key code Key retainer Lockrod Lockset Bored cylindrical lock Mortise lock Rim lock Single-point locking Three-point locking Keys Berlin key Car key Keychain Skeleton key Smart key Mechanical locks Warded lock Pin tumbler lock Disc tumbler lock Lever tumbler lock Magnetic keyed lock Padlock Combination lock Rotary combination lock Time-delay combination locks Time lock Tubular pin tumbler lock Wafer tumbler lock Electronic locks Electromagnetic lock Electronic lock Electric strike Keycard lock Other lock types Bicycle lock Bramah lock Chubb detector lock Child safety lock Kensington Security Slot Latch Luggage lock Power door locks Protector lock Real-estate lock box Steering-wheel lock The Club Lock picking Lock bumping Locksport Slim Jim Snap gun Door hardware Dead bolt Door chain Door closer Door frame Door furniture Door handle Door security Doorstop Hinge Night latch Emergency access/exit Crash bar Electromagnetic door holder Emergency exit Emergency light Exit control lock Exit sign Knox Box Security alarms Alarm device Alarm monitoring center Car alarm Card reader Closed-circuit television Door loop Dual loop Fingerprint scanner Glass break detector Heat detector Key switch Keypad Miniature snap-action switch Motion detector Occupancy sensor Passive infrared sensor (PIR) Perimeter intrusion detection Photoelectric sensor Piezo switch Pressure switch Proximity card Reed switch Tripwire Ultrasonic transducer Vandal-resistant switch Water detector Window security Miscellaneous Glossary of locksmithing terms John M. Mossman Lock Museum Key to the City Lock Museum Lock Museum of America Musée de la Serrure Puzzle lock Category:Locksmithing Keys Locks Book Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Door_furniture&oldid=1319667246 " Categories : Door furniture Doors Architectural elements Hardware (mechanical) Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata