https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief_financial_officer

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Person in a company or organization responsible for finances "CFO" redirects here. For other uses, see CFO (disambiguation) . A chief financial officer ( CFO ) is an officer of a company or organization who is assigned the primary responsibility for making decisions for the company for projects and its finances ; i.a.: financial planning , management of financial risks , record-keeping, and financial reporting , and, increasingly, the analysis of data .
The CFO thus has ultimate authority over the finance unit and is the chief financial spokesperson for the organization. The CFO typically reports to the chief executive officer (CEO) and the board of directors and may additionally have a seat on the board. The CFO directly assists the chief operating officer (COO) on all business matters relating to budget management , cost–benefit analysis, forecasting needs , and securing of new funding . Some CFOs have the title CFOO for chief financial and operating officer . [ 1 ] In most countries, finance directors ( FD ) typically report into the CFO, and FD is the level before reaching CFO. Legal requirement [ edit ] The appointment of a CFO or FD may be mandated by law. For example, in India, per the provisions of Section 203 of Companies Act 2013 every publicly listed firm having a paid up share capital of Rs. 10 Crores, requires a full time CFO. In the government sector this may be specified also: The US Chief Financial Officers Act , enacted in 1990, created a CFO in each of 23 federal agencies. (See also Office of Management and Budget and Office of Federal Financial Management .) Role [ edit ] The CFO serves as the financial authority in the organization. [ 2 ] Significantly, the CFO holds ultimate responsibility for the day-to-day aspects of financial management , ensuring an operating environment that values cash flow , profit margins , and risk mitigation ; tax management (and optimization ) will be a parallel focus.
The CFO thus has oversight of risk- , investment- and treasury management : the Chief Risk Officer , Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer will report to the CFO (or in smaller firms, the CFO assumes these roles). CFOs, in some organizations, will appoint a Chief Procurement Officer . [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] The CFO also drives the company's long-term financial strategy . 
Here, they will be critically involved in determining the viability and (see below) direction of major capital investments. This extends - as relevant - to e.g. mergers and acquisitions , and to corporate actions more generally. 
Corresponding to these, the CFO is responsible for managing the company's capital structure ; this entails identifying and maintaining the appropriate mix of equity and debt financing — if necessary raising capital via an equity- or debt issuance . This latter will include negotiating with investors, banks, and other financial institutions. 
See Strategic financial management and Capital budgeting . A major responsibility is financial reporting - and its related compliance (although  many CFOs still spend much of their time in traditional accounting tasks such as transaction reporting). [ 6 ] Included here — for listed companies — will be the various mandated security filings and shareholder reports .
Typically, then, the CFO is expected to be a key player in stockholder education [ 7 ] and communication.  The Comptroller , Company Secretary , and Investor Relations Officer will also report to the CFO. CFOs are thus relied upon as the owners of financial data within organizations; increasingly, this includes business data more generally.  In this role, then — as outlined above — the CFO's responsibilities extend to decision support , enabling the company to operate more effectively and efficiently; and relatedly, ensuring data integrity, and model transparency and accountability. 
The CFO and Chief Information Officer must therefore [ 8 ] collaborate, sometimes sharing KPIs . This focus on data analytics to support decision-making (along with the rise of digital technologies) places pressure on CFOs to meet the expectations of their C-Suite colleagues. [ 9 ] Here, many organizations have created a Finance function based on four pillars: the accounting organization as a shared service an FP&A organization responsible for driving financial planning processes as well as increased insight into financial and non financial KPIs to boost business performance a finance business partnering organization based on leadership of divisions, regions and performance improvement expertise centers specializing in Tax, Treasury , Internal Audit , Investor Relations , etc. The CFO was traditionally viewed as a financial " gatekeeper ". 
Over time - as outlined - the position has become one of an  advisor and strategic partner to the CEO . [ 10 ] [ 11 ] According to one source, "The CFO of tomorrow should be a big-picture thinker, rather than detail-oriented, outspoken rather than reserved, prefer to delegate rather than be hands-on, emphasize what gets done rather than how things are done, and make collaborative rather than unilateral decisions". [ 12 ] The duties of a modern CFO, therefore, now straddle the traditional areas of financial stewardship , as well as the more progressive areas of strategic- and business leadership , with increasingly direct responsibility and oversight of operations . [ 13 ] The relationship with the COO mirrors that of the CIO as above. This significant role-based transformation is best-evidenced by the " CEO -in-Waiting" status that many CFOs now hold.
Here, CEOs increasingly expect their CFOs to be active participants in shaping the strategy of their organizations, including challenging the current strategy. [ 14 ] CFOs thus play a critical role in shaping their company's strategies , functioning as a leader and team builder who sets the financial agenda for the organization, supports the CEO directly and provides timely advice to the board of directors . [ 15 ] This is especially so in uncertain macroeconomic environments, [ 16 ] where managing financial volatilities is a centerpiece for many companies' strategies. [ 17 ] Indeed, the 1990s saw the rise of the strategic CFO, and many companies have created a chief strategy officer (CSO) position. [ 18 ] The CFO is then as much a part of governance and oversight as the CEO, playing a fundamental role in the development and critique of strategic choices. Due to their importance, CFO departures—whether due to retirement, dismissal, or new opportunities—can significantly affect a company’s direction and stability, especially given the CFO’s growing role as a strategic partner to the CEO. [ 19 ] Qualifications [ edit ] See also: Financial analyst § Qualification , and Outline of finance § Education CFOs and FDs often hold a professional accounting qualification - the CPA , CA , CMA , or CIMA - along with its requisite bachelors and/or masters in accounting . The certification is specified given that responsibilities extend to tax and financial reporting . [ 20 ] Similarly, financial managers are often qualified accountants . [ citation needed ] In large companies, [ citation needed ] CFOs and FDs may hold additional postgraduate qualifications, [ 21 ] such as a Master of Business Administration , [ 22 ] or Master of Science in Finance ; [ 23 ] the Chartered Financial Analyst is also common. These complement the accounting perspective with more general strategic , leadership and financial market considerations, and give exposure to broader financial and operational issues. [ 21 ] See also [ edit ] Auditor general Comptroller Treasurer Virtual CFO Financial manager References [ edit ] ^ "Job openings/CFOO - Wikimedia Foundation" . wikimediafoundation.org . Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 11 June 2018 . ^ "What Does a Finance Director Do?" . FD Capital Recruitment . 6 May 2021 . Retrieved 17 June 2021 . ^ Aberdeen Group, The CFO’s View of Procurement: Getting More to the Bottom Line , published September 2005, archived on 23 January 2024, accessed on 2 August 2025 ^ Bartolini, A. and Dwyer, C., The CFO’s View of Procurement: Work in Progress , Aberdeen Group , published in November 2009 ^ "The CFO and the CPO: One World, Two Worldviews Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Procurement Officer (CPO)" . Ardentpartners.com . Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 21 November 2017 . ^ "Future of the Finance Function Survey 2016" . FSN Research . Archived from the original on 29 May 2016 . Retrieved 25 May 2016 . ^ Maureen O'Connell, Scholastic Inc. (28 October 2014). "How CFO's Can Turn Stakeholders Into Allies - By Maureen O'Connell" . Slideshare.net . Retrieved 21 November 2017 . ^ Meredith Bell (2023). Strong CIO And CFO Relationship Is Key To Business Success , forbes.com ^ "6 Technology Trends for CFOs in 2018: We asked the experts" . The Management Blog by BeeBole Timesheet . 8 January 2018 . Retrieved 1 May 2018 . ^ "CFO Role Shifts From Number Cruncher To Business Leader – TechCrunch" . techcrunch.com . 15 April 2015 . Retrieved 1 May 2018 . ^ Harris, Aaron. "With AI, CFOs Are Poised To Evolve Their Role Within Organizations" . Forbes . Retrieved 1 May 2018 . ^ Zwilling, Martin (18 March 2016). "Good Chief Financial Officers Focus on Much More Than Finance" . Entrepreneur . Retrieved 1 May 2018 . ^ Thomson, Jeff. "Why CFOs Need To Be Chief Future Officers" . Forbes.com . Retrieved 21 November 2017 . ^ "McKinsey on Finance. No. 27, Spring 2008" . McKinsey.com . Retrieved 1 June 2016 . ^ "What Board expects from CFO" . TopFinanceProfessionals.com . Archived from the original on 13 December 2013 . Retrieved 7 December 2013 . ^ "When Should Startups Hire A CFO? – TechCrunch" . techcrunch.com . 22 October 2014 . Retrieved 1 May 2018 . ^ "Clariden Global" . Claridenglobal.com . Retrieved 21 November 2017 . ^ "Who's Better at Strategy: CFOs or CSOs?" . Harvard Business Review . 11 January 2016. ISSN 0017-8012 . Retrieved 9 May 2021 . ^ Zhang, Ziheng; Mount, Matthew P.; Zhang, Stephen X. (2025). "A database of chief financial officer turnover and dismissal in S&P 1500 firms, 2000–2022" . Strategic Management Journal . 46 (5): 1293– 1321. doi : 10.1002/smj.3693 . ISSN 1097-0266 . ^ CollegeGrad LLC, Top Executives ^ a b Rotman. "Want to be CFO one day? You need to take control of your career | Rotman School | University of Toronto" . www.rotman.utoronto.ca . Retrieved 27 November 2025 . ^ Careers in Finance . §1.4 in Dahlquist, Julie; Knight, Rainford; Adams, Alan S. (2022). Principles of Finance . OpenStax, Rice University. ISBN 9781951693541 . ^ Determine If a Master's in Finance Is the Right Move , usnews.com , Feb. 9, 2015. Further reading [ edit ] Steven Bragg (2020). The CFO Guidebook (4th ed.) . AccountingTools. ISBN 9781642210484 Frank Fabozzi , Pamela Peterson, and Ralph Polimeni (2008). The Complete CFO Handbook - From Accounting To Accountability . Wiley . ISBN 9780470099261 External links [ edit ] Media related to Chief financial officers at Wikimedia Commons v t e Corporate titles Chief officers Accessibility Administrative Analytics Audit Automation Brand Business Commercial Communications Compliance Content Creative Data Design Digital Diversity Executive Experience Financial Gaming Happiness Human resources Idea Information Information security Innovation Investment Knowledge Learning Legal Marketing Medical Medical informatics Merchandising Networking Operating Privacy Procurement Product Research Restructuring Revenue Risk Science Security Solutions Strategy Sustainability Technology Visionary Web Senior executives Chairperson Creative director Development director General counsel Executive director Non-executive director President Representative director Vice president Mid-level executives Manager General manager Account manager Supervisor Product manager Foreman Related topics Board of directors Corporate governance Executive compensation List of business and finance abbreviations Senior management Supervisory board Talent management Authority control databases : National Japan Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chief_financial_officer&oldid=1329572371 " Categories : Chief financial officers Corporate titles Management occupations Corporate executives Finance occupations Financial management Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from September 2015 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2023 Articles with unsourced statements from May 2021 Commons category link is on Wikidata