https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filtration

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Process that separates solids from fluids This article is about the process of solid-fluid separation. For the mathematical concept, see Filtration (mathematics) . For the stochastic concept, see Filtration (probability theory) . For filtration used in winemaking, see Clarification and stabilization of wine . For other uses, see Filter (disambiguation) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Filtration" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( August 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Diagram of simple filtration: oversize particles in the feed cannot pass through the lattice structure of the filter, while fluid and small particles pass through, becoming filtrate . Filtration is a physical separation process that separates solid matter and fluid from a mixture using a filter medium that has a complex structure through which only the fluid can pass. Solid particles that cannot pass through the filter medium are described as oversize and the fluid that passes through is called the filtrate . [ 1 ] Oversize particles may form a filter cake on top of the filter and may also block the filter lattice, preventing the fluid phase from crossing the filter, known as blinding . The size of the largest particles that can successfully pass through a filter is called the effective pore size of that filter. The separation of solid and fluid is imperfect; solids will be contaminated with some fluid and filtrate will contain fine particles (depending on the pore size, filter thickness and biological activity). Filtration occurs both in nature and in engineered systems; there are biological , geological , and industrial forms. [ 2 ] In everyday usage the verb "strain" is more often used; for example, using a colander to drain cooking water from cooked pasta . Oil filtration refers to the method of purifying oil by removing impurities that can degrade its quality. Contaminants can enter the oil through various means, including wear and tear of machinery components, environmental factors, and improper handling during oil changes. The primary goal of oil filtration is to enhance the oil’s performance, thereby protecting the machinery and extending its service life. [ 3 ] Filtration is also used to describe biological and physical systems that not only separate solids from a fluid stream but also remove chemical species and biological organisms by entrainment , phagocytosis , adsorption and absorption . Examples include slow sand filters and trickling filters . It is also used as a general term for macrophage in which organisms use a variety of means to filter small food particles from their environment. Examples range from the microscopic Vorticella up to the basking shark , one of the largest fishes, and the baleen whales , all of which are described as filter feeders . Physical processes [ edit ] Filtration is used to separate particles and fluid in a suspension, where the fluid can be a liquid, a gas or a supercritical fluid . Depending on the application, either one or both of the components may be isolated. Filtration, as a physical operation enables materials of different chemical compositions to be separated. A solvent is chosen which dissolves one component, while not dissolving the other. By dissolving the mixture in the chosen solvent, one component will go into the solution and pass through the filter, while the other will be retained. Filtration is widely used in chemical engineering . It may be combined with other unit operations to process the feed stream, as in the biofilter , which is a combined filter and biological digestion device. Filtration differs from sieving, where separation occurs at a single perforated layer (a sieve ). In sieving, particles that are too big to pass through the holes of the sieve are retained (see particle size distribution ). In filtration, a multilayer lattice retains those particles that are unable to follow the tortuous channels of the filter.  Oversize particles may form a cake layer on top of the filter and may also block the filter lattice, preventing the fluid phase from crossing the filter (blinding). Commercially, the term filter is applied to membranes where the separation lattice is so thin that the surface becomes the main zone of particle separation, even though these products might be described as sieves. Filtration differs from adsorption , where separation relies on surface charge . Some adsorption devices containing activated charcoal and ion-exchange resin are commercially called filters, although filtration is not their principal mechanical function. Filtration differs from removal of magnetic contaminants from fluids with magnets (typically lubrication oil, coolants and fuel oils ) because there is no filter medium. Commercial devices called "magnetic filters" are sold, but the name reflects their use, not their mode of operation. In biological filters, oversize particulates are trapped and ingested and the resulting metabolites may be released. For example, in animals (including humans ), renal filtration removes waste from the blood , and in water treatment and sewage treatment , undesirable constituents are removed by adsorption into a biological film grown on or in the filter medium, as in slow sand filtration . Methods [ edit ] Filters may be used for the purpose of removing unwanted liquid from a solid residue, cleaning unwanted solids from a liquid, or simply to separate the solid from the liquid. There are many different methods of filtration; all aim to attain the separation of substances. Separation is achieved by some form of interaction between the substance or objects to be removed and the filter. The substance that is to pass through the filter must be a fluid , i.e. a liquid or gas . Methods of filtration vary depending on the location of the targeted material, i.e. whether it is dissolved in the fluid phase or suspended as a solid. Hot filtration, solution contained in the Erlenmeyer flask is heated on a hot plate to prevent re-crystallization of solids in the flask itself There are several laboratory filtration techniques depending on the desired outcome namely, hot, cold and vacuum filtration . Some of the major purposes of obtaining the desired outcome are, for the removal of impurities from a mixture or, for the isolation of solids from a mixture. Hot filtration for the separation of solids from a hot solution Hot filtration method is mainly used to separate solids from a hot solution. This is done to prevent crystal formation in the filter funnel and other apparatus that come in contact with the solution. As a result, the apparatus and the solution used are heated to prevent the rapid decrease in temperature which in turn, would lead to the crystallisation of the solids in the funnel and hinder the filtration process. [ 4 ] One of the most important measures to prevent the formation of crystals in the funnel and to undergo effective hot filtration is the use stemless filter funnel. Due to the absence of a stem in the filter funnel, there is a decrease in the surface area of contact between the solution and the stem of the filter funnel, hence preventing re-crystallization of solid in the funnel, and adversely affecting the filtration process. Cold filtration, the ice bath is used to cool down the temperature of the solution before undergoing the filtration process Cold filtration method is the use of an ice bath to rapidly cool the solution to be crystallized rather than leaving it to cool slowly in the room atmosphere. This technique results in the formation of very small crystals as opposed to getting large crystals by cooling the solution at room temperature. Vacuum filtration technique is mostly preferred for small batches of solution to dry small crystals quickly. This method requires a Büchner funnel , filter paper of a smaller diameter than the funnel, Büchner flask , and rubber tubing to connect to a vacuum source. [ 5 ] Centrifugal filtration is carried out by rapidly rotating the substance to be filtered. The more dense material is separated from the less dense matter by the horizontal rotation. [ 6 ] Gravity filtration is the process of pouring the mixture from a higher location to a lower one. It is frequently accomplished via simple filtration, which involves placing filter paper in a glass funnel with the liquid passing through by gravity while the insoluble solid particles are caught by the filter paper. Filter cones, fluted filters, or filtering pipets can all be employed, depending on the amount of the substance at hand. [ 6 ] Gravity filtration is in widespread everyday use, for example for straining cooking water from food, or removing contaminants from a liquid. Filtering force [ edit ] Only when a driving force is supplied will the fluid to be filtered be able to flow through the filter media. Gravity , centrifugation, applying pressure to the fluid above the filter, applying a vacuum below the filter, or a combination of these factors may all contribute to this force. In both straightforward laboratory filtrations and massive sand-bed filters, gravitational force alone may be utilized. Centrifuges with a bowl holding a porous filter media can be thought of as filters in which a centrifugal force several times stronger than gravity replaces gravitational force. A partial vacuum is typically provided to the container below the filter media when laboratory filtration is challenging to speed up the filtering process. Depending on the type of filter being used, the majority of industrial filtration operations employ pressure or vacuum to speed up filtering and reduce the amount of equipment needed. [ 7 ] Filter media [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( July 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Filter media are the materials used to do the separation of materials. Two main types of filter media are employed in laboratories: Surface filters are solid sieves with a mesh to trap solid particles, sometimes with  the aid of filter paper (e.g. Büchner funnel , belt filter , rotary vacuum-drum filter , cross-flow filters , screen filter ). [ 8 ] Depth filters ,  beds of granular material which retain the solid particles as they pass (e.g. sand filter ). [ 9 ] Surface filters allow the solid particles, i.e. the residue, to be collected intact; depth filters do not. However, the depth filter is less prone to clogging due to the greater surface area where the particles can be trapped. Also, when the solid particles are very fine, it is often cheaper and easier to discard the contaminated granules than to clean the solid sieve. [ 10 ] Filter media can be cleaned by rinsing with solvents or detergents or backwashing. Alternatively, in engineering applications, such as swimming pool water treatment plants, they may be cleaned by backwashing . Self-cleaning screen filters utilize point-of-suction backwashing to clean the screen without interrupting system flow. Achieving flow through the filter [ edit ] Fluids flow through a filter due to a pressure difference—fluid flows from the high-pressure side to the low-pressure side of the filter. The simplest method to achieve this is by gravity which can be seen in the coffeemaker example. In the laboratory, pressure in the form of compressed air on the feed side (or vacuum on the filtrate side) may be applied to make the filtration process faster, though this may lead to clogging or the passage of fine particles. Alternatively, the liquid may flow through the filter by the force exerted by a pump , a method commonly used in industry when a reduced filtration time is important. In this case, the filter need not be mounted vertically. Filter aid [ edit ] Certain filter aids may be used to aid filtration. These are often incompressible diatomaceous earth , or kieselguhr, which is composed primarily of silica . Also used are wood cellulose and other inert porous solids such as the cheaper and safer perlite . Activated carbon is often used in industrial applications that require changes in the filtrate's properties, such as altering colour or odour. These filter aids can be used in two different ways. They can be used as a precoat before the slurry is filtered. This will prevent gelatinous-type solids from plugging the filter medium and also give a clearer filtrate. They can also be added to the slurry before filtration. This increases the porosity of the cake and reduces the resistance of the cake during filtration. In a rotary filter, the filter aid may be applied as a precoat; subsequently, thin slices of this layer are sliced off with the cake. The use of filter aids is usually limited to cases where the cake is discarded or where the precipitate can be chemically separated from the filter. Alternatives [ edit ] Filtration is a more efficient method for the separation of mixtures than decantation but is much more time-consuming. If very small amounts of solution are involved, most of the solution may be soaked up by the filter medium. An alternative to filtration is centrifugation . Instead of filtering the mixture of solid and liquid particles, the mixture is centrifuged to force the (usually) denser solid to the bottom, where it often forms a firm cake . The liquid above can then be decanted. This method is especially useful for separating solids that do not filter well, such as gelatinous or fine particles. These solids can clog or pass through the filter, respectively. [ 11 ] Biological filtration [ edit ] Biological filtration may take place inside an organism, or the biological component may be grown on a medium in the material being filtered. Removal of solids, emulsified components, organic chemicals and ions may be achieved by ingestion and digestion, adsorption or absorption. Because of the complexity of biological interactions, especially in multi-organism communities, it is often not possible to determine which processes are achieving the filtration result. At the molecular level, it may often be by individual catalytic enzyme actions within an individual organism. The waste products of some organisms may subsequently broken down by other organisms to extract as much energy as possible and in so doing reduce complex organic molecules to very simple inorganic species such as water, carbon dioxide and nitrogen. Excretion [ edit ] Main article: Renal physiology § Filtration In mammals, reptiles, and birds, the kidneys function by renal filtration whereby the glomerulus selectively removes undesirable constituents such as urea , followed by selective reabsorption of many substances essential for the body to maintain homeostasis. The complete process is termed excretion by urination . Similar but often less complex solutions are deployed in all animals, even the protozoa , where the contractile vacuole provides a similar function. [ 12 ] Biofilms [ edit ] Main article: Biofilm Biofilms are often complex communities of bacteria, phages, yeasts and often more complex organisms including protozoa , rotifers and annelids which form dynamic and complex, frequently gelatinous films on wet substrates. Such biofilms coat the rocks of most rivers and the sea and they provide the key filtration capability of the Schmutzdecke on the surface of slow sand filters and the film on the filter media of trickling filters which are used to create potable water and treat sewage respectively. An example of a biofilm is a biological slime, which may be found in lakes, rivers, rocks, etc. The utilization of single- or dual-species biofilms is a novel technology since natural biofilms are sluggishly developing. The use of biofilms in the biofiltration process allows for the attachment of desirable biomass and critical nutrients to immobilized support. So that water may be reused for various processes, advances in biofiltration methods assist in removing significant volumes of effluents from wastewater . [ 13 ] Systems for biologically treating wastewater are crucial for enhancing both human health and water quality . Biofilm technology, the formation of biofilms on various filter media, and other factors have an impact on the growth structure and function of these biofilms. To conduct a thorough investigation of the composition, diversity, and dynamics of biofilms, it also takes on a variety of traditional and contemporary molecular approaches. [ 14 ] Filter feeders [ edit ] Main article: Filter feeders Filter feeders are organisms that obtain their food by filtering their, generally aquatic, environment. Many of the protozoa are filter feeders using a range of adaptations including rigid spikes of protoplasm held in the water flow as in the suctoria to various arrangements of beating cillia to direct particles to the mouth including organisms such as Vorticella which have a complex ring of cilia which create a vortex in the flow drafting particles into the oral cavity. Similar feeding techniques are used by the Rotifera and the Ectoprocta . Many aquatic arthropods are filter feeders. Some use rhythmical beating of abdominal limbs to create a water current to the mouth whilst the hairs on the legs trap any particle. Others such as some caddis flies spin fine webs in the water flow to trap particles. [ 15 ] Examples [ edit ] Filter flask (suction flask, with sintered glass filter containing sample). Note the almost colourless filtrate in the receiver flask. Many filtration processes include more than one filtration mechanism, and particulates are often removed from the fluid first to prevent clogging of downstream elements. Particulate filtration includes: The coffee filter to separate the coffee infusion from the grounds. HEPA filters in air conditioning to remove particles from air. Belt filters to extract precious metals in mining . Vertical plate filter such as those used in Merrill–Crowe process . [ clarification needed ] The Nutsche filter is typically used in pharmaceutical applications or batch processes that need to capture solids. Furnaces use filtration to prevent the furnace elements from fouling with particulates. [ clarification needed ] A pneumatic conveying system such as an industrial exhaust duct system often employs filtration to stop or slow the flow of unwanted material that is transported, through the use of a baghouse . In the laboratory, a Büchner funnel is often used, with a filter paper serving as the porous barrier. Air filters are commonly used to remove airborne particulate matter in building ventilation systems, combustion engines, and industrial processes. Oil filter in automobiles, often as a canister or cartridge. Aquarium filter Straining water from food with a colander Adsorption filtration removes contaminants by adsorption of the contaminant by the filter medium. This requires intimate contact between the filter medium and the filtrate, and takes time for diffusion to bring the contaminant into direct contact with the medium while passing through it, referred to as dwell time . Slower flow also reduces pressure drop across the filter. Applications include: Carbon dioxide removal from breathing gas in rebreathers and life-support systems using scrubber filters , Activated carbon filters to remove volatile hydrocarbons, odours, and other contaminants from recirculated breathing gas in closed habitats. Combined applications include: Small stationary Bauer HP breathing air compressor installation showing water separator (centre), and two high-pressure product filter housings (gold anodised) to produce oxygen compatible breathing air for diving gas mixtures. Compressed breathing air production, where the air passes through a particulate filter before entering the compressor, which removes particles likely to damage the compressor, followed by droplet separation after post-compression cooling and final product adsorption filtration to remove gaseous hydrocarbons contaminants and excessive water vapour. In some cases prefilters using adsorption media are used to control carbon dioxide levels, pressure swing adsorption may be used to increase oxygen fraction , and where the risk of carbon monoxide contamination exists, hopcalite catalytic converters may be included in the filtration media of the product. All these processes are broadly referred to as aspects of the filtration of the product. Potable water treatment using biofilm filtration in slow sand filters. Wastewater treatment using biofilm filtration using trickling filters. See also [ edit ] Chemistry portal Beer portal Biology portal Technology portal Separation process – Method that converts a mixture or solution into two or more distinct products Microfiltration – Physical process where a fluid is passed through a special pore-sized membrane Ultrafiltration – Filtration by force through a semipermeable membrane Nanofiltration – Filtration method that uses nanometer sized pores in biological membranes Reverse osmosis – Water purification process Cross-flow filtration – Filtration technique Sieve – Tool for separation of solid materials by particle size Sieve analysis – Procedure to assess particle size distribution Wikipedia:Edit filter – Wikipedia project page about the edit filter References [ edit ] ^ "Filtration" . Lenntech BV. 2009. ^ Sparks, Trevor; Chase, George (2015). Filters and Filtration Handbook (6th ed.). Butterworth-Heinemann. ISBN 9780080993966 . ^ Systems, Minimac. "What is Oil Filtration? Importance, Types, and Benefits Explained" . Minimac Systems . Retrieved 28 December 2024 . ^ "ORGANIC LABORATORY TECHNIQUES 3: Filtration Methods" (PDF) . University of Calgary . 19 September 2013. Archived (PDF) from the original on 13 February 2015. ^ chemtalk (13 August 2023). "What is Vacuum Filtration?" . ChemTalk . Retrieved 23 August 2025 . ^ a b "Filtration - Definition, Types, Functions & Quiz" . Biology Dictionary . 3 March 2017. ^ "filtration | Definition, Examples, & Processes | Britannica" . www.britannica.com . ^ Zobel, S.; Gries, T. (2010). "The use of nonwovens as filtration materials". Applications of Nonwovens in Technical Textiles . pp. 160– 183. doi : 10.1533/9781845699741.2.160 . ISBN 978-1-84569-437-1 . ^ "MULTI-MEDIA WATER FILTERS (Depth Filters)" . APEC WATER . Retrieved 23 August 2025 . ^ "Liquid Filtration". Coulson and Richardson's Chemical Engineering . 2019. pp. 555– 625. doi : 10.1016/B978-0-08-101098-3.00011-1 . ISBN 978-0-08-101098-3 . ^ Mkpuma, Victor Okorie; Moheimani, Navid Reza; Ennaceri, Houda (2022). "Microalgal dewatering with focus on filtration and antifouling strategies: A review". Algal Research . 61 102588. Bibcode : 2022AlgRe..6102588M . doi : 10.1016/j.algal.2021.102588 . ^ Ogobuiro, Ifeanyichukwu; Tuma, Faiz (2025). "Physiology, Renal" . StatPearls . StatPearls Publishing. PMID 30855923 . ^ Dave, Sushma; Churi, Hardik; Litoria, Pratiksha; David, Preethi; Das, Jayashankar (2021). "Biofilms, filtration, microbial kinetics and mechanism of degradation: A revolutionary approach". Membrane-Based Hybrid Processes for Wastewater Treatment . pp. 25– 43. doi : 10.1016/b978-0-12-823804-2.00018-5 . ISBN 978-0-12-823804-2 . ^ Sehar, Shama; Naz, Iffat (2016). "Role of the Biofilms in Wastewater Treatment". Microbial Biofilms - Importance and Applications . doi : 10.5772/63499 . ISBN 978-953-51-2435-1 . ^ "Protozoan - Ingestion, Digestion, Nutrition | Britannica" . www.britannica.com . 14 August 2025 . Retrieved 23 August 2025 . External links [ edit ] Look up filtration in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Filtration . Filtration modeling (constant rate and pressure) v t e Alchemy (general) Alchemists Greco-Egyptian Agathodaemon (legendary) Chymes pseudo-Cleopatra pseudo-Democritus Hermes Trismegistus (legendary) Mary the Jewess pseudo-Moses Ostanes (legendary) Paphnutia the Virgin Zosimos of Panopolis Ancient Chinese Fang (alchemist) Ge Hong Master Geng Wei Boyang Byzantine pseudo-Olympiodorus Stephanus of Alexandria Synesius Arabic-Islamic Abū Bakr al-Rāzī (Rhazes) Alphidius pseudo-Apollonius of Tyana (Balīnūs/Balīnās) Artephius pseudo-Avicenna Ibn Arfaʿ Raʾs Ibn Umayl (Senior Zadith) Ibn Waḥshiyya al-ʿIrāqī Jābir ibn Ḥayyān (Geber) pseudo-Khālid ibn Yazīd (Calid) al-Jildakī Maslama al-Qurṭubī al-Ṭughrāʾī al-Zahrāwī (Abulcasis) Late medieval pseudo-Albertus (pseudo-)Arnaldus de Villa Nova pseudo-Geber George Ripley Guido di Montanor Hugh of Evesham Johann of Laz John Dastin John of Rupescissa (Jean de Roquetaillade) Magister Salernus pseudo-Michael Scot Ortolanus Paul of Taranto Petrus Bonus pseudo-Ramon Llull (pseudo-)Roger Bacon Taddeo Alderotti Thomas Norton Early modern Andreas Libavius Basil Valentine pseudo-Bernard of Treviso George Starkey (Eirenaeus Philalethes) Gerhard Dorn Giovanni da Correggio Heinrich Khunrath Hennig Brand Isaac Newton Jakob Böhme Jan Baptist van Helmont Johann Rudolf Glauber John Dee Michael Maier Michael Sendivogius Paracelsus Pierre-Jean Fabre Robert Boyle Samuel Norton Thomas Vaughan (Eugenius Philalethes) Wilhelm Homberg Modern Carl Jung Eugène Canseliet Frater Albertus Fulcanelli Mary Anne Atwood Jacques Breyer Writings Major Works Atalanta fugiens Aurora consurgens Liber de compositione alchemiae ( Morienus ) Book of the Silvery Water and the Starry Earth Book of Mercy Books of the Balances Buch der heiligen Dreifaltigkeit Cantong Qi Chymical Wedding of Christian Rosenkreutz Clavis sapientiae ( Miftāḥ al-ḥikma ) De consideratione quintae essentiae Emerald Tablet ( Tabula Smaragdina ) Leyden papyrus X Liber Hermetis de alchemia ( Liber dabessi ) Liber ignium Liber lucis Mappae clavicula Mirror of Alchimy Mutus liber Nabataean Agriculture Ordinal of Alchemy Papyrus Graecus Holmiensis Physika kai mystika Rosary of the Philosophers Rutbat al-ḥakīm ( Step of the Sage ) Seventy Books Sirr al-khalīqa ( Secret of Creation ) Sirr al-Asrar (pseudo-Aristotle) Sirr al-Asrar (al-Rāzī) Splendor solis Summa perfectionis Suspicions about the Hidden Realities of the Air Turba philosophorum Twelve Keys of Basil Valentine Compilations Aureum vellus Bibliotheca chemica curiosa De alchemia Deutsches Theatrum Chemicum Fasciculus chemicus Musaeum Hermeticum Theatrum chemicum Theatrum chemicum Britannicum Tripus aureus Various Alembic Alkahest Athanor Azoth Chrysopoeia Element Digestion Elixir of life Homunculus Iatrochemistry In art/entertainment Magnum opus Ouroboros Pill of Immortality Philosophers' stone Prima materia Rebis Spagyric Takwin Yliaster Processes Substances Symbols ( Unicode , Suns in alchemy ) All articles v t e Biotechnology History History of biotechnology Timeline of biotechnology Competitions and prizes in biotechnology Branches Colors of biotechnology Industrial biotechnology Biological concepts Allele Cell DNA / RNA Fermentation Gene Plasmid Protein Selective breeding General concepts Biotechnology industrial park Biotechnology products Biotechnology law Green Revolution Human Genome Project Pharmaceutical company Basic techniques and tools Biology field Bioreactor Cell culture Cultured meat Flow cytometry Hybridoma technology HPLC NMR Spectroscopy Chemical field Centrifugation CSTR Crystallization Chromatography Kidney dialysis Electrophoresis Extraction Fed Batch Filtration PFR Sedimentation Applications Animal cell culture Biofabrication Bioinformatics Biosynthesis Bionic architecture Cell immunity Cloning Reproductive cloning Therapeutic cloning Embryology Environmental biotechnology Genetic engineering Genetically modified organism Molecular genetics Gene therapy Microbial biodegradation Omics Pharmacogenomics Stem cells Telomere Tissue culture Interdisciplinary fields Bioeconomy Bioelectronics Bioengineering Biology Biopharmacology Biomedical engineering Biomedicine Biomimetics Biochemicals Biorobotics Chemical engineering Microbiology Mining Molecular biology Nanobiotechnology Virology Lists Index of biotechnology articles List of biotechnology articles List of largest biomedical companies by market capitalization Category Commons v t e Physiology of the kidneys and acid–base physiology Creating urine Secretion Clearance Pharmacokinetics Clearance of medications Urine flow rate Reabsorption Solvent drag Sodium Chloride Urea Glucose Oligopeptides Protein Filtration Renal blood flow Ultrafiltration Countercurrent exchange Filtration fraction Other functions Hormones Antidiuretic hormone Aldosterone Atrial natriuretic peptide Renin Erythropoietin Calcitriol Prostaglandins Fluid balance Body water : Intracellular fluid/Cytosol Extracellular fluid ( Interstitial fluid Plasma Transcellular fluid ) Acid–base balance Darrow Yannet diagram Base excess Davenport diagram Anion gap ( Delta ratio ) Winters's formula Buffering Bicarbonate buffer system Respiratory compensation Renal compensation Assessment and measurement Glomerular filtration rate Creatinine clearance Augmented renal clearance Renal clearance ratio Urea reduction ratio Kt/V Standardized Kt/V Dialysis adequacy Hemodialysis product PAH clearance ( Effective renal plasma flow Extraction ratio ) Other Fractional excretion of sodium BUN-to-creatinine ratio Tubuloglomerular feedback Natriuresis Urine v t e Separation processes Processes Absorption Acid–base extraction Adsorption Chromatography Cross-flow filtration Crystallization Cyclonic separation Decantation Dialysis Dissolved air flotation Distillation Drying Electrochromatography Electrofiltration Extraction Filtration Flocculation Froth flotation Gravity separation Leaching Liquid–liquid extraction Electroextraction Microfiltration Osmosis Precipitation Recrystallization Reverse osmosis Sedimentation Solid-phase extraction Sublimation Ultrafiltration Devices API oil–water separator Belt filter Centrifuge Depth filter Electrostatic precipitator Evaporator Filter press Fractionating column Leachate Mixer-settler Protein skimmer Rapid sand filter Rotary vacuum-drum filter Scrubber Spinning cone Still Sublimation apparatus Vacuum ceramic filter Multiphase systems Aqueous two-phase system Azeotrope Eutectic Concepts Unit operation v t e Wastewater Sources and types Acid mine drainage Ballast water Bathroom Blackwater (coal) Blackwater (waste) Boiler blowdown Brine Combined sewer Cooling tower Cooling water Fecal sludge Greywater Infiltration/Inflow Industrial wastewater Ion exchange Leachate Manure Papermaking Produced water Return flow Reverse osmosis Sanitary sewer Septage Sewage Sewage sludge Toilet Urban runoff Quality indicators Adsorbable organic halides Biochemical oxygen demand Chemical oxygen demand Coliform index Oxygen saturation Heavy metals pH Salinity Temperature Total dissolved solids Total suspended solids Turbidity Wastewater surveillance Treatment options Activated sludge Aerated lagoon Agricultural wastewater treatment API oil–water separator Carbon filtering Chlorination Clarifier Constructed wetland Decentralized wastewater system Extended aeration Facultative lagoon Fecal sludge management Filtration Imhoff tank Industrial wastewater treatment Ion exchange Membrane bioreactor Reverse osmosis Rotating biological contactor Secondary treatment Sedimentation Septic tank Settling basin Sewage sludge treatment Sewage treatment Sewer mining Stabilization pond Trickling filter Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation UASB Vermifilter Wastewater treatment plant Disposal options Combined sewer Evaporation pond Groundwater recharge Infiltration basin Injection well Irrigation Marine dumping Marine outfall Reclaimed water Sanitary sewer Septic drain field Sewage farm Storm drain Surface runoff Vacuum sewer Category: Sewerage v t e Analytical chemistry Instrumentation Atomic absorption spectrometer Flame emission spectrometer Gas chromatograph High-performance liquid chromatograph Infrared spectrometer Mass spectrometer Melting point apparatus Microscope Optical spectrometer Spectrophotometer Techniques Calorimetry Chromatography Electroanalytical methods Gravimetric analysis Ion mobility spectrometry Mass spectrometry Spectroscopy Titration Sampling Coning and quartering Dilution Dissolution Filtration Masking Pulverization Sample preparation Separation process Sub-sampling Calibration Chemometrics Calibration curve Matrix effect Internal standard Standard addition Isotope dilution Prominent publications Analyst Analytica Chimica Acta Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry Analytical Chemistry Analytical Biochemistry Category Commons Portal WikiProject Authority control databases International GND National United States France BnF data Japan Czech Republic Israel Other Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Filtration&oldid=1329488489 " Categories : Filtration Analytical chemistry Laboratory techniques Alchemical processes Industrial water treatment Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from December 2020 Articles needing additional references from August 2018 All articles needing additional references Articles needing additional references from July 2020 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2021 Commons category link is on Wikidata