https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69465065/hyundai-crater-concept-reveal

Hyundai Hyundai debuted the all-electric Crater Concept at the Los Angeles Auto Show. It’s based on the same platform as the Ioniq 5 and other Hyundai/Kia/Genesis EVs. It shows the styling direction for future off-road-ready XRT models. No word on when those come out, but should be sooner rather than later. The fun, rugged Hyundai Crater Concept unveiled at the LA Auto Show today points the way for more off-road-ready XRT trims on Hyundai crossovers in the near future. There’s profit in those loaded-up XRT trim levels, and in all the off-road-ready accessories owners love to pile on top of them, so look for more XRTs soon, and look for them to have similar lines to those you see here on this Crater Concept. Other Off-Road Trim Levels Toyota Adds a Splash of Color to TRD Pro Models Honda Turns the 2026 Passport into Cool Overlander The concept isn’t that complex to build, either, since it rides on the same EGMP architecture that supports Hyundai’s other electric crossovers like the Ioniq 5, as well as models from Kia and even Genesis. The Crater checks all the boxes for off-road-looking SUVs: It rolls on 33-inch tires, has a high ground clearance, tough aluminum rock sliders under the doorsills, meaty aluminum skid plates, massive fender flares poking out into traffic from each wheel well, and it’s slathered in Dune Gold Matte paint with pixelized camo patterns in the black composite trim pieces. Open the electrically operated doors and you’ll see there is no B-pillar (just like a Lancia Appia! ). Hyundai No B-pillars! Inside, you’ll see that the IP, or instrument panel, is all just one big cross-car tube of metal, about the size of one of your larger ABS pipes, only with dials and screens mounted on it. The seats are also made up of tubes, but those are soft, cushiony black Alcantara. A full roll cage lines the inside for added security, while strategically placed topographic map patterns remind you where you can go. On that big IP bar are four square little controllers. The first one pops off and lets you play a game projected in the HUD, another way to while away the time as you recharge. A digital readout on the steering wheel hub tells you what drive mode you’re in: snow, sand, mud, or auto. The screen and HUD even display a campfire to help you relax while charging. There’s a DJ mode, too, though I didn’t play with that one. Hyundai Tubular pattern abides throughout. Note the wide HUD. Throughout the Crater are little images of a guy they call Crater Man. He is everywhere, you find more of him the more you look. There’s even a Crater Man-shaped bottle opener that is part of the front left steel recovery hook. At the intro, they gave everybody Crater Man stickers and a nylon belt with a black plastic Crater Man as the buckle. Break his Crater head apart to drop trou. Could be as popular as the rubber ducks on Jeeps. There were no specifics on powertrain, but an Ioniq 5 comes in single- and dual-motor powertrains with outputs ranging from 168 horsepower to 320. There’s also the high-performance Ioniq 5 N , which packs 641 hp and handling to match. Range is as high as 318 miles, and you can charge it from 10%-80% in as little as 20 minutes, Hyundai says. Prices start at  $44,200 and go to $59,800. But that’s for the Ioniq 5 on which this is based. Part of the point of an XRT model is that Hyundai can charge more for it, so expect the price of an XRT to be higher. But also look for it to be way more fun. Mark Vaughn Mark Vaughn grew up in a Ford family and spent many hours holding a trouble light over a straight-six miraculously fed by a single-barrel carburetor while his father cursed the Blue Oval, all its products and everyone who ever worked there. This was his introduction to objective automotive criticism. He started writing for City News Service in Los Angeles, then moved to Europe and became editor of a car magazine called, creatively, Auto. He decided Auto should cover Formula 1, sports prototypes and touring cars—no one stopped him! From there he interviewed with Autoweek at the 1989 Frankfurt motor show and has been with us ever since.