https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shanghai_Pudong_Development_Bank

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Chinese state-owned commercial bank Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. Ltd The SPDB now occupies the HSBC Building, Shanghai on The Bund of Shanghai Native name 上海浦东发展银行 Company type Public company ; State-owned enterprise Traded as SSE : 600000 Industry Banking , finance Founded 9 January 1993 ; 32 years ago ( 1993-01-09 ) Headquarters Shanghai , China Key people Gao Guofu (Chairman) Zhu Yuchen (President) Products Financial services Website www .spdb .com .cn Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Chinese 上海浦东发展银行 Hanyu Pinyin Shànghǎi Pǔdōng Fāzhǎn Yínháng Transcriptions Standard Mandarin Hanyu Pinyin Shànghǎi Pǔdōng Fāzhǎn Yínháng Shanghai Pudong Development Bank , branded as Pufa Bank in Chinese and SPD Bank in English, is a city-owned joint-stock commercial bank . It was established in 1993 and owned by the Shanghai Municipal Government. Shanghai Pudong Development Bank issued a 400 million A-share offer on 23 September 1993, on the Shanghai Stock Exchange . It became the first shareholding commercial bank to list with both Central Bank and China Securities Regulatory Commission 's approval since the enactment of "Commercial Bank Law" and "Securities Law". The registered capital reached RMB 2.41 billion. 320 million shares of the issue were listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange on 10 November 1999 (stock code 600000). [ 1 ] History [ edit ] Pufa Tower , the Shanghai branch of SPDB, Pudong , Shanghai Shanghai Pudong Development Bank partnered with Silicon Valley Bank in 2012 to create a separate Shanghai-based bank to lend to local technology startups. [ 2 ] It was the first Sino-American joint venture bank. [ 3 ] In 2024, SPD Silicon Valley Bank has been renamed into Shanghai Innovation Bank, 100% owned by SPD Bank. [ 4 ] In 2019, it was reported that the bank was under investigation for alleged money laundering and sanctions violations involving the North Korean regime. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] The bank allegedly moved money for the Foreign Trade Bank of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea that was used to finance the country's nuclear and ballistic missile programs . [ 7 ] Criticism [ edit ] Misappropriation in Chengdu [ edit ] In April 2017, news broke that the Chengdu branch of Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (SPD Bank) was involved in a massive bad debt scandal amounting to hundreds of billions of yuan. This money was allegedly manipulated by four individuals through over 2,000 shell companies. [ 8 ] Although SPD Bank initially denied any wrongdoing, it later admitted to irregularities at the branch. The Chengdu branch manager subsequently retired and was replaced by the manager of the Kunming branch. [ 9 ] Exploiting the image of deceased firefighters for advertising [ edit ] An advertising campaign by SPD Bank sparked public outrage for exploiting the image of firefighters who died in the Liangshan forest fire to promote a credit card debt exemption service. [ 10 ] Specifically, on the evening of 2 April 2019, SPD Bank's credit card center posted a poster stating "Exemption of outstanding credit card debts of martyrs in the Liangshan fire." [ 11 ] [ 12 ] This act was strongly condemned for being disrespectful to the sacrifice of the firefighters. By the afternoon of 3 April, SPD Bank had to publicly apologize and request the removal of the image. [ 13 ] References [ edit ] ^ Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Archived 4 November 2007 at the Wayback Machine ^ Muncaster, Phil (20 August 2012). "Silicon Valley comes to China to spur tech innovation" . The Register . Archived from the original on 26 September 2017 . Retrieved 11 September 2017 . ^ "Silicon Valley Bank's China venture says operations 'sound' " . Nikkei Asia . Archived from the original on 12 March 2023 . Retrieved 12 March 2023 . ^ "正式获批！上海科创银行来了！" . www.stcn.com . Archived from the original on 22 September 2024 . Retrieved 23 December 2024 . ^ Hsu, Spencer (24 June 2019). "Chinese bank involved in probe on North Korean sanctions and money laundering faces financial 'death penalty' " . Washington Post . Archived from the original on 27 June 2019 . Retrieved 29 June 2019 . ^ Wolfe, Jan; Brunnstrom, David (31 July 2019). "U.S. appeals court upholds ruling against Chinese banks in North Korea sanctions probe" . Reuters . Archived from the original on 12 August 2019 . Retrieved 12 August 2019 . ^ Hsu, Spencer (25 June 2019). "Chinese banks respond to report of U.S. subpoena battle in North Korea sanctions probe" . Washington Post . Archived from the original on 29 June 2019 . Retrieved 29 June 2019 . ^ "独家|浦发成都分行违规事件还原 借壳公司腾挪风险资产" . finance.caixin.com . Archived from the original on 7 December 2023 . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . ^ "浦发银行回应成都分行"千亿资金"事件:客户权益未受影响" (in Chinese (China)). Archived from the original on 3 November 2020 . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . ^ "用凉山火灾烈士姓名做广告 浦发信用卡致歉：将严肃追责" . www.peopleapp.com (in Chinese) . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . ^ 北京青年报 (3 April 2019). "Vanilla gift balance" . news.sina.com.cn . Archived from the original on 16 September 2024 . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . ^ "用凉山火灾烈士姓名做广告 浦发信用卡致歉：将严肃追责-新闻中心-中国宁波网" . news.cnnb.com.cn . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . ^ 北京青年报 (3 April 2019). "被指借凉山牺牲英雄发广告 浦发银行道歉" . news.sina.com.cn . Archived from the original on 3 November 2020 . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . External links [ edit ] Banks portal Official website (in English and Chinese) Links to related articles v t e Banking in China Banking in China History of banking in China Central bank People's Bank Policy bank Agricultural Development Development Export–Import State Council commercial Agricultural CITIC China Communications Construction Everbright Industrial and Commercial Merchants Postal Savings Nationwide commercial Bohai Guangfa Huaxia Industrial Minsheng Ping An Shanghai Pudong Development Zheshang Urban commercial Beijing Dalian Hangzhou Harbin Jiangsu Jilin Nanjing Ningbo Qingdao Shanghai Taian Taizhou Tianjin Tibet Shengjing Xiamen International Regulatory agency National Administration of Financial Regulation List of banks in China List of banks in Hong Kong List of banks in Macau v t e Constituents of the FTSE China A50 Index Agricultural Bank of China Bank of China Bank of Communications Beijing–Shanghai High-Speed Railway BYD CGN Power China CITIC Bank China Construction Bank China Everbright Bank China Merchants Bank China Pacific Insurance China Petroleum & Chemical China Securities China Shenhua Energy China State Construction Engineering China Tourism Group China Yangtze Power CITIC Securities Contemporary Amperex Technology East Money Information Foshan Haitian Flavouring and Food Foxconn Industrial Internet Great Wall Motor Gree Electric Appliances Inc of Zhuhai Haier Hygon Information Technology Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Industrial Bank Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Kweichow Moutai LONGi Green Energy Technology Luxshare Luzhou Laojiao Midea Group Mindray Muyuan Foodstuff Nari Technology People's Insurance Company of China PetroChina Ping An Bank Ping An Insurance Postal Savings Bank of China S.F. Holding Shaanxi Coal and Chemical Industry Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Shanxi Xinghuacun Fen Wine Factory Wanhua Chemical Group Wuliangye Yibin Yihai Kerry Zijin Mining v t e Constituents of Hang Seng China 50 Index Agricultural Bank of China Alibaba Group Baidu Bank of China Bank of Communications BYD Company CATL China Construction Bank China Life Insurance Company China Merchants Bank China Mobile China Pacific Insurance Company China Shenhua Energy CITS Group Corporation China Yangtze Power CITIC Securities CNOOC Limited Foshan Haitian Flavouring & Food Co Great Wall Motor Gree Electric Hikvision ICBC Industrial Bank JD.com Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Kuaishou Kweichow Moutai LONGi Luxshare Meituan Midea Group Mindray Muyuan Foodstuff NetEase Nongfu Spring PetroChina Ping An Bank Ping An Insurance Postal Savings Bank of China SF Express Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Shanxi Xinghuacun Fen Wine Factory Sinopec Tencent Vanke Wanhua Chemical Group Wuliangye Yibin WuXi AppTec Xiaomi Yihai Kerry Authority control databases ISNI VIAF GND Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shanghai_Pudong_Development_Bank&oldid=1325807243 " Categories : Hang Seng China 50 Index Companies in the CSI 100 Index Companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange Companies in the FTSE China A50 Index Banks established in 1993 Banks based in Shanghai Government-owned banks of China 1993 establishments in Shanghai Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 Chinese (China)-language sources (zh-cn) CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from December 2023 Articles containing Chinese-language text Articles with Chinese-language sources (zh)