https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Building

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Structure, typically with a roof and walls, standing more or less permanently in one place For the act of making buildings, see Construction . For structures not intended for human occupancy, see Nonbuilding structure . For other uses, see Building (disambiguation) and Edifice (disambiguation) . For technical reasons , "Building #19" redirects here. For the store chain, see Building 19 . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Building" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Short visual history of architectural styles (from left to right): the Ishtar Gate ( Mesopotamian ); the Temple of Isis from Philae ( Ancient Egyptian ); the Maison Carrée ( Greco - Roman ); the Kandariya Mahadeva Temple ( Indian ); the Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests of the Temple of Heaven ( Chinese ); the Basilica of San Vitale ( Byzantine ); Badshahi Mosque ( Islamic ); the Durham Cathedral ( Romanesque ); Sainte-Chapelle ( Gothic ); the Tempietto ( Renaissance ); Château de Maisons ( Baroque ); boiserie from the Hôtel de Varengeville ( Rococo ); the Petit Trianon ( Neoclassical ); Grand Central Terminal , Midtown Manhattan , New York City ( Beaux-Arts ); the Castel Béranger ( Art Nouveau ); the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées ( Art Deco ); the Fagus Factory ( Modern ); and the Neue Staatsgalerie ( Postmodern ) A building or edifice is an enclosed structure with a roof , walls and often windows , usually standing permanently in one place, [ 1 ] such as a house or factory . [ 1 ] Buildings come in a variety of sizes , shapes , and functions, and have been adapted throughout history for numerous factors, from building materials available, to weather conditions, land prices, ground conditions, specific uses, prestige , and aesthetic reasons. To better understand the concept, see Nonbuilding structure for contrast. A historical building in Tabriz , Iran Buildings serve several societal needs – occupancy, primarily as shelter from weather, security, living space, privacy, to store belongings, and to comfortably live and work. A building as a shelter represents a physical separation of the human habitat (a place of comfort and safety) from the outside (a place that may be harsh and harmful at times). Buildings have been objects or canvasses of much artistic expression . In recent years, interest in sustainable planning and building practices has become an intentional part of the design process of many new buildings and other structures, usually green buildings. Definition [ edit ] Skyscrapers under construction in Kalasatama , Helsinki , Finland (2021) A building is 'a structure that has a roof and walls and stands more or less permanently in one place'; [ 1 ] "there was a three-storey building on the corner"; "it was an imposing edifice". In the broadest interpretation a fence or wall is a building. [ 2 ] However, the word structure is used more broadly than building , to include natural and human-made formations [ 3 ] and ones that do not have walls; structure is more often used for a fence. Sturgis' Dictionary included that "[building] differs from architecture in excluding all idea of artistic treatment; and it differs from construction in the idea of excluding scientific or highly skillful treatment." [ 4 ] Structural height in technical usage is the height to the highest architectural detail on the building from street level. Spires and masts may or may not be included in this height, depending on how they are classified. Spires and masts used as antennas are not generally included. The distinction between a low-rise and high-rise building is a matter of debate, but generally three stories or less is considered low-rise. [ 5 ] History [ edit ] See also: History of architecture There is clear evidence of homebuilding from around 18,000 BC. [ 6 ] Buildings became common during the Neolithic period . [ 7 ] Types [ edit ] Main article: List of building types A timber-framed house in Marburg , Germany Belle Époque city-house on Strada Arthur Verona in Bucharest , Romania , currently part of a bookshop The Mitilineu House, a city-house in Bucharest, dating from 1898 Residential [ edit ] Main article: List of house types This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . Find sources: "Building" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Single-family residential buildings are most often called houses or homes . Multi-family residential buildings containing more than one dwelling unit are called duplexes or apartment buildings . Condominiums are apartments that occupants own rather than rent . Houses may be built in pairs ( semi-detached ) or in terraces, where all but two of the houses have others on either side. Apartments may be built around courtyards or as rectangular blocks surrounded by plots of ground. Houses built as single dwellings may later be divided into apartments or bedsitters , or converted to other uses (e.g., offices or shops). Hotels , especially of the extended-stay variety ( apartels ), can be classed as residential. Building types may range from huts to multimillion-dollar high-rise apartment blocks able to house thousands of people. Increasing settlement density in buildings (and smaller distances between buildings) is usually a response to high ground prices resulting from the desire of many people to live close to their places of employment or similar attractors. Terms for residential buildings reflect such characteristics as function (e.g., holiday cottage (vacation home) or timeshare if occupied seasonally); size ( cottage or great house ); value ( shack or mansion ); manner of construction ( log home or mobile home ); architectural style ( castle or Victorian ); and proximity to geographical features ( earth shelter , stilt house , houseboat , or floating home). For residents in need of special care or those society considers dangerous enough to deprive of liberty , there are institutions ( nursing homes , orphanages , psychiatric hospitals , and prisons ) and group housing ( barracks and dormitories ). Historically, many people lived in communal buildings called longhouses , smaller dwellings called pit-houses , and houses combined with barns, sometimes called housebarns . Common building materials include brick, concrete, stone, and combinations thereof. Buildings are defined to be substantial, permanent structures. Such forms as yurts and motorhomes are therefore considered dwellings but not buildings . Otto Wulff office building in Buenos Aires , Argentina Commercial [ edit ] A commercial building is one in which at least one business is based and people do not live. Examples include stores , restaurant , and hotels . [ citation needed ] Industrial [ edit ] Industrial buildings are those in which heavy industry is done, such as manufacturing . These edifices include warehouses and factories . [ citation needed ] Agricultural [ edit ] Agricultural buildings are the outbuildings , such as barns located on farms . [ citation needed ] Mixed use [ edit ] Some buildings incorporate several or multiple different uses, most commonly commercial and residential. [ citation needed ] Complex [ edit ] Aluminum panel framed steel building in Korea Sometimes a group of interrelated (and possibly inter-connected) builds are referred to as a complex – for example, a housing complex , [ 8 ] educational complex, [ 9 ] hospital complex, etc. Creation [ edit ] The practice of designing, constructing, and operating buildings is generally a collective effort of different groups of professionals and trades . Depending on the size, complexity, and purpose of a particular building project, the project team may include: A real estate developer who secures funding for the project; One or more financial institutions or other investors that provide the funding; Local planning and code authorities; A surveyor who performs an ALTA/ACSM and construction surveys throughout the project; Construction managers who coordinate the effort of different groups of project participants; Licensed architects and engineers who provide building design and prepare construction documents ; The principal design Engineering disciplines which would normally include the following professionals: Civil , Structural , Mechanical building services or HVAC (heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning) Electrical Building Services, Plumbing and drainage. Also other possible design Engineer specialists may be involved such as Fire (prevention), Acoustic, façade engineers, building physics, Telecoms, AV (Audio Visual), BMS (Building Management Systems) Automatic controls etc. These design Engineers also prepare construction documents which are issued to specialist contractors to obtain a price for the works and to follow for the installations. Landscape architects ; Interior designers ; Other consultants; Contractors who provide construction services and install building systems such as climate control , electrical , plumbing , decoration , fire protection , security and telecommunications ; Marketing or leasing agents; Facility managers who are responsible for operating the building. Regardless of their size or intended use, all buildings in the US must comply with zoning ordinances , building codes , and other regulations such as fire codes , life safety codes , and related standards. Vehicles—such as trailers , caravans , ships , and passenger aircraft —are treated as "buildings" for life safety purposes. Ownership and funding [ edit ] Mortgage loan Real estate developer Environmental impacts [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Green building § Reducing environmental impact . [ edit ] Buildings represent a large part of energy, electricity, water, and materials consumption. As of 2020, they account for 37% of global energy use and energy-related CO 2 emissions, which the United Nations estimates contributed to 33% of overall worldwide emissions. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Including the manufacturing of building materials, the global CO 2 emissions were 39%. [ 12 ] If new technologies in construction are not adopted during this time of rapid growth, emissions could double by 2050, according to the United Nations Environment Program . Glass buildings, especially all-glass skyscrapers, contribute significantly to climate change due to their energy inefficiency. While these structures are visually appealing and allow abundant natural light, they also trap heat, necessitating increased use of air conditioning systems, which contributes to higher carbon emissions. Experts advocate for design modifications and potential restrictions on all-glass edifices to mitigate their detrimental environmental impact. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] Buildings account for a large amount of land. According to the National Resources Inventory , approximately 107 million acres (430,000 km 2 ) of land in the United States are developed. The International Energy Agency released a publication that estimated that existing buildings are responsible for more than 40% of the world's total primary energy consumption and for 24% of global carbon dioxide emissions. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] See also: Green building , Low-energy house , and Zero-energy building Building services [ edit ] Physical plant [ edit ] Main article: Physical plant The BB&T Building in Macon, Georgia is constructed of aluminum . Any building requires a certain general amount of internal infrastructure to function, which includes such elements like heating / cooling, power and telecommunications, water and wastewater etc. Especially in commercial buildings (such as offices or factories), these can be extremely intricate systems taking up large amounts of space (sometimes located in separate areas or double floors / false ceilings) and constitute a big part of the regular maintenance required. Conveying systems [ edit ] Systems for transport of people within buildings: Elevator An under construction building in Pune, India. It is a high rise building, located in the South-Eastern Part of the city. In an area commonly known as 'Nine Hills'. Escalator Moving sidewalk (horizontal and inclined) Systems for transport of people between interconnected buildings: Skyway Underground city Building damage [ edit ] A building in Massueville ( Quebec , Canada ) engulfed by fire Buildings may be damaged during construction or during maintenance. They may be damaged by accidents [ 17 ] involving storms, explosions, subsidence caused by mining, [ 18 ] water withdrawal [ 19 ] or poor foundations [ 20 ] and landslides. [ 21 ] Buildings may suffer fire damage [ 22 ] [ 23 ] and flooding. [ 24 ] They may become dilapidated through lack of proper maintenance, or alteration work improperly carried out. See also [ edit ] Architecture portal Autonomous building Commercial modular construction Earthquake engineering Float glass Hurricane-proof building List of largest buildings List of tallest buildings Lists of buildings and structures List of building materials Natural building Natural disaster and earthquake Skyscraper Steel building Tent References [ edit ] ^ a b c Max J. Egenhofer (2002). Geographic Information Science: Second International Conference, GIScience 2002, Boulder, CO, USA, September 25–28, 2002. Proceedings . Springer Science & Business Media. p. 110. ISBN 978-3-540-44253-0 . ^ Building def. 2. Whitney, William Dwight, and Benjamin E. Smith. The Century dictionary and cyclopedia . vol. 1. New York: Century Co., 1901. 712. Print. ^ Structure. def. 2. Merriam-Webster's dictionary of synonyms: a dictionary of discriminated synonyms with antonyms and analogous and contrasted words .. Springfield, Mass: Merriam-Webster, 1984. 787. Print. ^ Building. def 1. Sturgis, Russell. A dictionary of architecture and building: biographical, historical, and descriptive . vol. 1. New York: The Macmillan Co.; 1901. 2236. Print. ^ Paul Francis Wendt and Alan Robert Cerf (1979), Real estate investment analysis and taxation , McGraw-Hill, p. 210 ^ Rob Dunn (Aug 23, 2014). "Meet the lodgers: Wildlife in the great indoors" . New Scientist : 34– 37. Archived from the original on 2014-11-29. ^ Pace, Anthony (2004). "Tarxien". In Daniel Cilia (ed.). Malta before History – The World's Oldest Free Standing Stone Architecture . Miranda Publishers. ISBN 978-99909-85-08-5 . ^ "plans to convert housing complex" . Archived from the original on 2017-01-10 . Retrieved 2017-02-23 . ^ "isye building complex" . Archived from the original on 2017-01-03. ^ "2020 Global Status Report for Buildings and Construction: Towards a Zero-emissions, Efficient and Resilient Buildings and Construction Sector - Executive Summary" . 2020. ^ Nord, Natasa (2017), "Building Energy Efficiency in Cold Climates" , Encyclopedia of Sustainable Technologies , Elsevier, pp. 149– 157, doi : 10.1016/b978-0-12-409548-9.10190-3 , ISBN 978-0-12-804792-7 , retrieved 2022-04-04 ^ Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction; International Energy Agency; United Nations Environment Programme (2019). "2019 Global Status Report for Buildings and Construction Towards a zero-emissions, efficient, and resilient buildings and construction sector" (PDF) . UN environment programme Document Repository . United Nations Environment Programme. Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 October 2020 . Retrieved 20 October 2020 . ^ Tapper, James (Jul 28, 2019). "Experts call for ban on glass skyscrapers to save energy in climate crisis" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on July 28, 2019 . Retrieved Sep 7, 2023 . ^ "Wasteful steel-and-glass buildings fuel global climate injustice, says climate expert" . phys.org . Oct 19, 2019. Archived from the original on October 19, 2021 . Retrieved Sep 7, 2021 . ^ "Buildings – Analysis" . ^ Goodhew S 2016 Sustainable Construction Processes A Resource Text. John Wiley & Son ^ "Building Damage" . Pb.unimelb.edu.au. Archived from the original on 2014-02-14 . Retrieved 2014-08-22 . ^ Herrera, G.; Álvarez Fernández, M.I.; Tomás, R.; González-Nicieza, C.; López-Sánchez, J.M.; Álvarez Vigil, A.E. (September 2012). "Forensic analysis of buildings affected by mining subsidence based on Differential Interferometry (Part III)" . Engineering Failure Analysis . 24 : 67– 76. doi : 10.1016/j.engfailanal.2012.03.003 . hdl : 20.500.12468/749 . ^ Bru, G.; Herrera, G.; Tomás, R.; Duro, J.; Vega, R. De la; Mulas, J. (2013-02-01). "Control of deformation of buildings affected by subsidence using persistent scatterer interferometry". Structure and Infrastructure Engineering . 9 (2): 188– 200. doi : 10.1080/15732479.2010.519710 . ISSN 1573-2479 . S2CID 110521863 . ^ Díaz, E.; Robles, P.; Tomás, R. (October 2018). "Multitechnical approach for damage assessment and reinforcement of buildings located on subsiding areas: Study case of a 7-story RC building in Murcia (SE Spain)" . Engineering Structures . 173 : 744– 757. Bibcode : 2018EngSt.173..744D . doi : 10.1016/j.engstruct.2018.07.031 . hdl : 10045/77547 . ^ Soldato, Matteo Del; Bianchini, Silvia; Calcaterra, Domenico; Vita, Pantaleone De; Martire, Diego Di; Tomás, Roberto; Casagli, Nicola (2017-07-12). "A new approach for landslide-induced damage assessment" (PDF) . Geomatics, Natural Hazards and Risk . 8 (2): 1524– 1537. Bibcode : 2017GNHR....8.1524D . doi : 10.1080/19475705.2017.1347896 . ISSN 1947-5705 . S2CID 73697187 . ^ Brotóns, V.; Tomás, R.; Ivorra, S.; Alarcón, J. C. (2013-12-17). "Temperature influence on the physical and mechanical properties of a porous rock: San Julian's calcarenite". Engineering Geology . 167 (Supplement C): 117– 127. Bibcode : 2013EngGe.167..117B . doi : 10.1016/j.enggeo.2013.10.012 . ^ Tomás, R.; Cano, M.; Pulgarín, L.F.; Brotóns, V.; Benavente, D.; Miranda, T.; Vasconcelos, G. (November 2021). "Thermal effect of high temperatures on the physical and mechanical properties of a granite used in UNESCO World Heritage sites in north Portugal" . Journal of Building Engineering . 43 102823. doi : 10.1016/j.jobe.2021.102823 . hdl : 10045/115630 . ^ Marvi, Morteza T. (2020-07-01). "A review of flood damage analysis for a building structure and contents". Natural Hazards . 102 (3): 967– 995. Bibcode : 2020NatHa.102..967M . doi : 10.1007/s11069-020-03941-w . ISSN 1573-0840 . External links [ edit ] Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article " Building ". The dictionary definition of building at Wiktionary Media related to Buildings at Wikimedia Commons Quotations related to Building at Wikiquote v t e Real estate developments Commercial Airport Business park Bus station Commercial area Mixed-use development Office building Port inland Power center Retail park Riverfront Shopping center ( Shopping mall ) Train station Shopping streets and districts Industrial Business cluster Industrial district Industrial park Technology centers Residential Agrihood Boarding house Bungalow court City block Closed community Company town Conservation community Executive home Golf course community Gated community Housing estate Intentional community Luxury apartment McMansion Mixed-use development Model dwellings for the poor Multifamily residential Penthouse apartment Private community Public housing Residential airpark Residential area Retirement community Revenue house Rooming house Single-room occupancy Subdivision Tract housing Disability Assisted living Behavior modification facility Residential treatment center Therapeutic boarding school Elderly care Age-restricted community Nursing home Retirement home Senior living Science/education Akademgorodok Atomgrad Campus Research park Satellite campus Science park Municipal Arcology Civic center Garden city movement Model village Planned cities Planned community Urban green space parks Buildings ( types ) Apartment Dwelling / House types Skyscraper Tower block Villa Miscellaneous Brownfield land Cemetery Residential cluster development Construction Context theory Eminent domain Greenfield land Greyfield land Groundscraper Land-use planning Nonbuilding NIMBY Park Parking ( Multistorey car park ) Planning permission Playground Redevelopment Regional planning Urban design Urban planning YIMBY Zoning Housing portal v t e Rooms and spaces of a house Shared rooms Bonus room Common room Den Dining room Family room Garret Great room Home cinema Keeping room Kitchen dirty kitchen kitchenette Living room Gynaeceum harem Andron man cave Recreation room billiard room Shrine Study Sunroom Private rooms Bathroom toilet Bedroom closet Bedsit Boudoir Cabinet Nursery Spaces Atrium Balcony Breezeway Conversation pit Cubby-hole Deck Elevator dumbwaiter Entryway / Genkan Fireplace hearth Foyer Hall Hallway Inglenook Lanai Loft Loggia Overhang Patio Porch screened sleeping Ramp Secret passage Stairs / Staircase Terrace Veranda Vestibule Technical , utility and storage Attic Basement Carport Cloakroom Closet Crawl space Electrical room Equipment room Furnace room / Boiler room Garage Janitorial closet Larder Laundry room / Utility room / Storage room Mechanical room / floor Pantry Root cellar Semi-basement Storm cellar / Safe room Studio Wardrobe Wine cellar Wiring closet Workshop Great house areas Antechamber Ballroom Kitchen-related butler's pantry buttery saucery scullery spicery still room Conservatory / Orangery Courtyard Quadrangle Drawing room Great chamber Great hall Library Long gallery Lumber room Parlour Sauna Servants' hall Servants' quarters Smoking room Solar State room Swimming pool Turret Undercroft Other Furniture Hidden room House house plan styles types Multi-family residential Secondary suite Duplex Terraced Detached Semi-detached Townhouse Studio apartment Architectural elements Arch Balconet Baluster Belt course Bressummer Ceiling Chimney Colonnade / Portico Column Cornice / Eaves Dais Dome Door Ell Floor Foundation Gable Gate Portal Lighting Molding Ornament Podium Plumbing Quoins Roof shingles Roof lantern Sill plate Style list Skylight Threshold Transom Vault Wall Window Related Backyard Driveway Front yard Garden roof garden Home Home improvement Home repair Shed Tree house Category: Rooms Authority control databases International GND FAST National United States France BnF data Japan Czech Republic Latvia Sweden Israel Artists KulturNav Other NARA Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Building&oldid=1327533219 " Categories : Building Buildings and structures Real estate Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from October 2023 All articles needing additional references Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Articles needing additional references from June 2023 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2023 Articles with excerpts Commons category link is on Wikidata