https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101813/nissan-altima-key-fob-only-works-in-car

Nissan Altima Key Fob Only Works In Car Ask Question Asked 5 days ago Modified 5 days ago Viewed 31 times 0 I own a 2021 Nissan Altima. When trying to lock my car I noticed the fob was not working, not even the buttons on the door handle. My car would not start, stating I had an incorrect key ID. I then pressed my fob against the ignition and it turned on. Once the car was running, my fob started working again - only inside the car. After I got out, trying to lock my car again, the fob stopped working. The battery on my car an in my fob are from 2025. Any ideas on what to do? nissan key fob Share Improve this question Follow asked Dec 24 at 3:26 Ehoppy 1 1 1 bronze badge New contributor Ehoppy is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct . 3 Welcome to Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair! Do you have a 2nd fob you could try? If a 2nd fob works, it can tell you if the problem is with the fob or the car. Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 – Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 ♦ 2025-12-24 11:10:21 +00:00 Commented Dec 24 at 11:10 Yes I have a second spare and both fobs do not work. My car also lets me know when my fob battery is low so it is not the battery on the fob. Ehoppy – Ehoppy 2025-12-24 16:47:02 +00:00 Commented Dec 24 at 16:47 1 I don't know what's wrong with your car, but one or more of the electronic modules that control locks, remotes and security could be suffering from temporary insanity. If you know how to safely connect and disconnect the 12V car battery, you should disconnect it and leave it disconnected for 30 minutes. This will re-boot all the modules that rely on constant power. After you re-connect it, see if anything has changed. You might get lucky and fix the problem. You may have to re-program radio stations, seat positions, etc. MTA – MTA 2025-12-24 17:31:39 +00:00 Commented Dec 24 at 17:31 Add a comment | 0 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions nissan key fob See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 12 Remote Key Fob working only inside the car (close to receiver) 3 Nissan door does not open from outside 2 Sporadic keyless entry (2013 Altima) 1 ford taurus 2010 sel. lights flashing 4 How to reuse old Prius fob with different Prius 0 Toyota Vitz key fob not working Hot Network Questions How to terminate unused taps for multi-ratio CT What is the "little red wagon" in the Miranda Lambert song? South African with expired TIE need to travel for bereavement If Dr. Henry Jekyll had been charged with killing Sir Danvers Carew, would he have been found guilty? FunctionDomain of Hold Piecewise function Initial value for 2-soliton solution of KdV equation Is Daredevil's powered-up form in Marvel Rivals based on a comic version? Sushi Sudoku. Yummy! How is the disc identifier found in .cda files computed? How to make a line above across the entire width of ItemNumbered? circuitikz: European Amplifier (en amp) without pins or with absolut valued pin length Is the portable DNA paternity testing kit in One Battle After Another based on a real-world device? Introducing younger kids to the navigation of traffic alone In what way is Jesus' burden light? Can you please point to any references to bija mantras in any major shastras? WCF 5.3: What does it mean that God uses means and can work without, above and against them? How to understand phrases with なら and ても? Technological feasibility of transporting Martian water to Earth Is the idea of a supernatural explanation incoherent? an error with using a variable defined by pgfmathsetmacro in "let...in..." A regular circle of images Self Connection in CDG from Terminal 1 to Terminal 2B with less than 3 hours McNemar test: I do not understand why (or how, or when?) it works Why do condensation droplets on my window show a size gradient? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.