https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stroke_(engine)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Phase of an engine piston's travel This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Stroke" engine – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) In the context of an internal combustion engine , the term stroke has the following related meanings: A phase of the engine's cycle (e.g. compression stroke, exhaust stroke), during which the piston travels from top to bottom or vice versa. The type of power cycle used by a piston engine (e.g. two-stroke engine , four-stroke engine ). "Stroke length", the distance travelled by the piston during each cycle. The stroke length, along with bore diameter , determines the engine's displacement . Phases in the power cycle [ edit ] The phases/strokes of a four-stroke engine . 1: intake 2: compression 3: power 4: exhaust Animation of a two-stroke engine Commonly used engine phases or strokes (i.e. those used in a four-stroke engine) are described below. Other types of engines can have very different phases. Induction-intake stroke [ edit ] The induction stroke is the first phase in a four-stroke (e.g. Otto cycle or Diesel cycle ) engine. It involves the downward movement of the piston , creating a partial vacuum that draws an air-fuel mixture (or air alone, in the case of a direct injection engine) into the combustion chamber. The mixture enters the cylinder through an intake valve at the top of the cylinder. Compression stroke [ edit ] See also: Compression ratio The compression stroke is the second of the four stages in a four-stroke engine. In this stage, the air-fuel mixture (or air alone, in the case of a direct injection engine) is compressed to the top of the cylinder by the piston. This is the result of the piston moving upwards, reducing the volume of the chamber. Towards the end of this phase, the mixture is ignited, by a spark plug for petrol engines or by self-ignition for diesel engines. Combustion-power-expansion stroke [ edit ] The combustion stroke is the third phase, where the ignited air-fuel mixture expands and pushes the piston downwards. The force created by this expansion is what creates an engine's power. Exhaust stroke [ edit ] The exhaust stroke is the final phase in a four stroke engine. In this phase, the piston moves upwards, squeezing out the gasses that were created during the combustion stroke. The gasses exit the cylinder through an exhaust valve at the top of the cylinder. At the end of this phase, the exhaust valve closes and the intake valve opens, which then closes to allow a fresh air-fuel mixture into the cylinder so the process can repeat itself. Types of power cycles [ edit ] The thermodynamic cycle used by a piston engine is often described by the number of strokes to complete a cycle. The most common designs for engines are two-stroke and four-stroke. Less common designs include one-stroke engines, five-stroke engines , six-stroke engines and two-and-four stroke engines . One-stroke engine [ edit ] A Granada, Spain-based company, INNengine invented an opposed-piston engine with four pistons on either side to make a total of eight. Fixed rods hold together all pistons, and they share one combustion chamber. These rods press against plates that have an oscillating wave-like design, allowing the rods to press and release the pistons in a synchronized, smooth process. The engine, known as the e-REX creates 4 times more power events per revolution than a conventional 4 Stroke and twice more than a 2 Stroke. [ 1 ] Although the e-REX is called a one-stroke engine there is debate that says it is actually a two-stroke engine, it is called a one-stroke because each piston executes two strokes (i.e., compression/combustion and exhaust/intake) in half an engine revolution, then by INNengine's logic, two strokes multiplied by half a revolution is what gave it the Patented 1 Stroke name. [ 2 ] Two-stroke engine [ edit ] Two-stroke engines complete a power cycle every two strokes, which means a power cycle is completed with every crankshaft revolution. Two-stroke engines are commonly used in (typically large) marine engines, outdoor power tools (e.g. lawnmowers and chainsaws) and motorcycles. [ 3 ] Four-stroke engine [ edit ] Four-stroke engines complete a power cycle every four strokes, which means a power cycle is completed every two crankshaft revolutions. Most automotive engines are of a four-stroke design. [ 3 ] Five-stroke engine [ edit ] Five-stroke engines complete a power cycle every five strokes. The engine only exists as a prototype. Six-stroke engine [ edit ] Six-stroke engines complete a power cycle every six strokes, which means a power cycle is completed every three crankshaft revolutions. Stroke length [ edit ] The stroke length is how far the piston travels in the cylinder, which is determined by the cranks on the crankshaft . Engine displacement is calculated by multiplying the cross-section area of the cylinder (determined by the bore ) by the stroke length. This number is multiplied by the number of cylinders in the engine, to determine the total displacement. Steam engine [ edit ] The term stroke can also apply to movement of the piston in a locomotive cylinder . See also [ edit ] Stroke ratio References [ edit ] ^ "Our Technology – INNengine" . ^ "INNengine "one-stroke" waves away conventional engine design" . New Atlas . July 12, 2023. ^ a b Dempsey, Paul (29 September 2009). Two-Stroke Engine Repair and Maintenance . United States: McGraw-Hill Education. pp. 20– 34. ISBN 9780071625401 . v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category v t e Steam engines Operating cycle Atmospheric Watt Cornish Compound Uniflow Valves Valves Slide D slide Piston Drop Corliss Poppet Sleeve Bash Valve gear Gab Stephenson link Joy Walschaerts Allan Baker Corliss Lentz Caprotti Gresley conjugated Southern Mechanisms Beam Cataract Centrifugal governor Connecting rod Crank Crankshaft Tusi couple hypocycloidal straight line mechanism Link chain Parallel motion Plate chain Rotative beam Sun and planet gear Watt's linkage Boilers Simple boilers Haystack Wagon Egg-ended Box Flued Cornish Lancashire Fire-tube boilers Locomotive Scotch Launch Water-tube boilers Babcock & Wilcox Field-tube Sentinel Stirling Thimble tube Three-drum Yarrow Boiler feed Feedwater heater Feedwater pump Injector Cylinder Locomotive Oscillating Single- and double-acting Condenser Condensing steam locomotive Jet Kirchweger Watt's separate "Pickle-pot" Surface Other Blowback Crosshead Cutoff Expansion valve Hydrolock Piston Reciprocating engine Return connecting rod engine Six-column beam engine Steeple engine Safety valve Steeple compound engine Stroke Working fluid History Precursors Savery Engine (1698) Newcomen engine Newcomen Memorial Engine (1725) Fairbottom Bobs (1760) Elsecar Engine (1795) Watt engine Beam Kinneil Engine (1768) Old Bess (1777) Chacewater Mine engine (1778) Smethwick Engine (1779) Resolution (1781) Rotative beam Soho Manufactory engine (1782) Bradley Works engine (1783) Whitbread Engine (1785) National Museum of Scotland engine (1786) Lap Engine (1788) High-pressure Richard Trevithick Puffing Devil (1801) London Steam Carriage (1803) "Coalbrookdale Locomotive" (1803) "Pen-y-Darren" locomotive (1804) Compound Woolf's compound engine (1803) Murray Murray's Hypocycloidal Engine (1805) Salamanca (1812) High-speed Porter-Allen (1862) Ljungström (1908) See also Glossary of steam locomotive components History of steam road vehicles Cugnot's fardier à vapeur (1769) Murdoch's model steam carriage (1784) Lean's Engine Reporter List of steam technology patents Modern steam Stationary steam engine Timeline of steam power Water-returning engine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Stroke_(engine)&oldid=1327557996 " Category : Engine technology Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from September 2022 All articles needing additional references