https://www.motortrend.com/features/how-long-does-it-take-to-charge-an-ev

How Long Does It Take to Charge an Electric Car? How Long Does It Take to Charge an Electric Car? EV charging times depend on a complex variety of factors. We break down the details and provide real-world examples based on MotorTrend testing. Doug Newcomb Writer Ryan Lugo Illustration By MotorTrend Staff Photographer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 04, 2025 One of the starkest contrasts between gas-powered and electric vehicles (EVs) —and one that makes a huge difference in choosing one EV over another—is refueling time. After all, automakers don’t cite refueling times for gasoline and diesel internal combustion (ICE) vehicles since it only takes just a few minutes regardless of the fuel level, and tank size and is a moot, noncompetitive point of comparison. But the time it takes to charge an EV’s battery is often a critical deciding factor for shoppers—and perhaps the most complex and one of the least understood. That’s because there are so many variables involved with how long it takes to charge an EV battery, among them: the amount of power supplied by a charger, the EV’s battery size, the vehicle’s onboard charger capacity, and even the ambient temperature. In short, your charging times can and will fluctuate, sometimes substantially, depending on the situation. In an effort to sort through the static, we’ve gathered all the pertinent info on battery charging and augmented it with MotorTrend ’s trusted real-world experience with the goal of helping you make an easier, more informed buying decision about EV charging times. The good news is that nowadays when plugged into a DC fast charger (we’ll explain that shortly), it can take as little as 15 to 20 minutes in ideal conditions to go from say, 20 to 80 percent of charge, and things are getting incrementally better all the time depending on the vehicle and where they charge, among other factors. But the bottom line is, things are still complicated. Leveling Up EV Charging The most crucial factor that defines an EV’s refueling time is its three charging types or levels. It’s helpful to think of each of these as filling a swimming pool with three different-sized hoses. First is Level 1 charging that uses a common residential 120-volt/15-amp electrical outlet and is the slowest—kind of like using a straw to fill a pool. Depending on the vehicle and battery, Level 1 charging only adds around 5 miles of range every hour, and it can take upwards of 50 hours or more to charge an EV from 0 to 80 percent. Level 1 is only practical if you drive about 30 miles a day. Level 2 charging operates at 240 volts and draws current between 40 and 80 amps, like household appliances such as clothes dryers and electric stoves. Many EV owners install a Level 2 charger in their garage, but renters and those who live in multi-unit dwellings have fewer options . They usually must rely on public Level 2 chargers that normally operate at a slightly lower 208 volts but aren’t necessarily slower—only less convenient—unless more than one vehicle is connected. Some older chargers share power between multiple plugs and will split the total available power, which means if more than one car is connected, they will charge more slowly than a single vehicle. Public Level 2 chargers are usually installed in housing, hotel, office, and business complexes where EV drivers may spend most of the day (or night). Depending on the vehicle, Level 2 chargers can fill a battery from 0 to 80 percent in anywhere from 4 to 10 hours, which makes it convenient and compelling for EV owners to install a home charger and is more like using a high-volume garden hose to fill a pool. Level 3 chargers, also known as DC or fast chargers, offer the quickest way to fill an EV battery. They use direct current (DC) as opposed to alternating current (AC) like Level 1 and Level 2. Level 3 charging is offered at public facilities operated by various networks in places such as shopping and business centers and increasingly at gas stations along heavy-traffic corridors. A Level 3 charger can fill an EV battery fastest to a full 100 percent state of charge (SoC), anywhere from 30-plus minutes to 1 hour or more depending on the vehicle in MotorTrend testing—and is more like a fire hose. Level 3 chargers generally operate at between 50 to 350 kilowatts (kW), with newer stations capable of outputs up to 500 kW. As with Level 2 public chargers, the power output of a Level 3 charger can also reduce speed when more vehicles are connected, particularly with older stations that divide power between vehicles or at charging sites with a load-management feature. While more recent Level 3 charging stations provide full power to each vehicle, if the charging site is busy, the total power available to all chargers can be briefly reduced to manage the overall load. Two Ways EVs Are Like ICE Vehicles While much slower, filling an EV is analogous to gassing up an ICE vehicle in two ways. As with a gas tank, the larger the battery capacity measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh), the longer it takes to fill no matter the charging level. All things being equal, an EV with an 80-kWh battery will take twice as long to charge as one with a 40-kWh battery, just as it takes longer to fill a 40-gallon fuel tank than it does to fill a 20-gallon tank. And while a larger battery offers a longer range and therefore needs to charge less often, it costs more per charging session because it stores more electricity. Larger batteries can also be at a disadvantage since the added weight can decrease the vehicle’s overall efficiency. Another thing ICE vehicles and EVs have in common is that topping off your fuel tank or battery can be detrimental. Filling your gasoline car to the brim of the fuel-filler neck can damage your vehicle’s vapor recovery system (it’s illegal in Oregon), which is why a pump cuts off at a certain level. EVs are similar in that charging is reduced when the vehicle battery's state of charge reaches around 80 percent to optimize battery life and reduce the risk of overcharging. This is also why automakers often cite charging times for when the battery reaches an 80 percent SoC and discourage EV owners from frequently charging all the way to 100 percent except in situations where maximum range is needed, like for a long trip. And since charging slows above 80 percent, the last 20 percent of charge can double the charge time—and cost more money as a result. It’s also worth mentioning that although most public EV chargers bill per kWh, some Level 3 DC fast chargers are priced per minute, which can make that last 20 percent cost even more. Battery Chemistry and Architecture Make a Difference In addition to size, battery chemistry also makes a difference, especially with Level 3 fast charging. Most of today’s EV batteries consist of a mixture of either nickel, manganese, and cobalt (NMC) or nickel, manganese, cobalt, and aluminum (NMCA). Another type of battery that’s gaining traction, especially in China, is lithium iron phosphate (LFP) . NMC and NMCA batteries are more prone to deterioration from frequent fast charging, while LFP batteries are generally more resilient to fast charging. EVs employ battery-management systems to help mitigate the strain of fast charging by limiting current and monitoring temperature to safeguard the battery and make fast charging more efficient overall. NMC and NMCA batteries are also more sensitive to high heat but have higher energy density, whereas LFP batteries are more resistant to heat but can struggle in cold conditions. This is why some vehicles have a preconditioning feature to heat or cool the battery to an optimal temperature for fast charging. Another factor that can affect charging speed is an EV’s electrical architecture. Most EVs are built on a 400-volt architecture, while high-performance models such as the Porsche Taycan benefit from a higher-power 800-volt architecture, although mainstream EVs like the Hyundai Ioniq 5 also use an 800-volt architecture. Power level is, of course, lower with a 400-volt architecture, which affects charging speed and limits powertrain performance, while 800-volt systems provide faster charging, higher performance, and enhanced powertrain efficiency. Most vehicles with a 400-volt architecture can only charge to speeds up to around 150 kW to 200 kW, although Tesla’s ubiquitous Supercharger network includes 250-kW chargers that work with its vehicles that have a 400-volt architecture. Vehicles with an 800-volt architecture can take full advantage of chargers that deliver speeds up to 350 kW and drastically reduce charging time, and some 400-volt vehicles can subdivide their battery packs and wire them in series to take advantage of higher 800-volt charging speeds. While the number of chargers that supply 350 kW is growing, they are still few and far between compared to lower-power and lower-speed DC chargers. Go Figure If you’ve made it this far, you’re probably still wondering: So, how long does it take to charge my EV’s battery or the EV I want to buy? With all the variables out of the way, if you want the short answer, you’ll have to do some math. But before we get to that, let’s quickly cover yet another variable that affects charging time and the difference between Level 1 and Level 2 AC charging and Level 3 DC charging. With Level 1 and 2 charging, the battery is not actually connected to a charger, but rather a power source. That’s because all EVs have a built-in charger that converts the AC current into the DC electricity the battery stores and uses and is bypassed when using DC fast chargers. EV onboard chargers have various power ratings, measured in kilowatts. These power ratings range from around 7 kW to as high as 22 kW, with 11 kW being common. To calculate the time it will take to charge your EV, you should: First, determine the battery’s total storage capacity in kWh. Next, determine the current state of charge, or simply how much charge in percentage your battery has by checking the vehicle’s display. Then find the maximum rate in kilowatts at which the charger can deliver energy. Rember to consider the vehicle’s charge acceptance rate, the maximum power in kilowatts that its battery can receive from a charger, since the maximum power rate may be less than the charger’s total output. Finally, divide the amount of energy needed by the charger's power output or the maximum vehicle charge acceptance rate, whichever is lower. So, if your EV has an 80-kWh battery that’s 50 percent charged, it will need 40 kWh to reach a 100 percent charge. If the vehicle’s Level 2 AC power acceptance rate is 11 kW and a Level 2 charger’s output is 7.6 kW, you would divide the charge needed (40 kWh) by the charger’s output (7.6 kW) to find that the vehicle will require about 5.26 hours of charging to reach full battery. But keep in mind that the time to charge may be longer to account for any inherent losses in the charging process, and it will be shorter if you charge to just 80 percent. Trust MotorTrend’s Real-World Testing If you’re math-challenged, you can simply trust MotorTrend ’s real-world testing of Level 3 charging specs we include in every EV review. They aren't ballpark numbers, they’re measured using a specific procedure, and they’re entered into a massive spreadsheet along with details for each test that includes not only the vehicle, trim level, battery size, and the charger’s maximum output, but also the type of tires, time of day, ambient temperature, charger location, charging costs, and much more. For example, last April we charged a 2025 Hyundai Ioniq 5 XRT AWD that has an 800-volt electronic architecture at an Electrify America 350-kW charger capable of 1,000-volt charging, one of the fastest available. It took 24 minutes for the EV’s 84.0-kWh battery to charge from 5 to 80 percent and 51 minutes to charge from 5 to 100 percent. We later charged the vehicle at a Tesla 325-kW Supercharger, and it took 32 minutes to charge the battery from 5 to 80 percent and 60 minutes to charge from 5 to 100 percent. Like the Ioniq 5 XRT, more non-Tesla EVs can now be charged at Tesla Superchargers and even come with a built-in North American Charging System (NACS) port that was once proprietary to Tesla. The advantage is gaining access to more than 2,500 Supercharger stations and nearly 30,000 individual plugs across U.S., but as you can see from the charge times above, plugging into those can be slightly slower than using other 350-kW DC fast chargers. It's Complicated As MotorTrend’s Alex Leanse noted about the slower charging at the Tesla Supercharger: “The results reveal new layers of complexity in EV charging that may end up frustrating EV drivers before it makes life easier.” And this was with the 2025 Hyundai Ioniq 5 XRT AWD’s native NACS port at the Tesla Supercharger—and using a NACS-to-CCS adapter that Hyundai supplies the vehicle to charge at the Electrify America station. But besides the fact that the Electrify America charger operated at 350 kW and the Tesla Supercharger at Tesla 325 kW, there was also a significant difference between the Tesla's Supercharger’s 500-volt output and the Electrify America charger delivering 1,000 volts. There’s more to it, and you can dig into the details in our full 2025 Ioniq 5 charging analysis . Suffice it to say, the time it takes to charge an EV is complicated and involves numerous variable factors. The good news is that with current DC fast chargers it can take as little as 15 to 20 minutes in ideal conditions to go from 20 to 80 percent charge—enough time to grab a snack and take a break on a long road trip. And developments in battery chemistry and the rollout of more numerous and more powerful charging stations along with access to Tesla’s Supercharger network to non-Tesla EVs may make charging easier and faster. The bad news is, for the foreseeable future at least, charging an EV will continue to be considerably slower than refueling a gasoline or diesel engine, unless it’s a hydrogen-powered EV—but they have their own refueling challenges . This article was originally published in July 2023. It has been updated. Doug Newcomb Share You May Also Like MotorTrend Recommended Stories Load More