https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reciprocating_motion

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Repetitive back-and-forth linear motion This article relies largely or entirely on a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources . Find sources: "Reciprocating motion" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( May 2022 ) Double-acting stationary steam engine demonstrating conversion of reciprocating motion to rotary motion. The piston is on the left, and the crank is mounted on the flywheel axle on the right Machine demonstrating the conversion of rotary motion to reciprocating motion using gears.  The bottom pair of gears drives the mechanism Reciprocating motion , also called reciprocation , is a repetitive up-and-down or back-and-forth linear motion . It is found in a wide range of mechanisms, including reciprocating engines and pumps . The two opposite motions that comprise a single reciprocation cycle are called strokes . [ citation needed ] A crank can be used to convert into reciprocating motion, or conversely turn reciprocating motion into circular motion. [ citation needed ] [ 1 ] For example, inside an internal combustion engine (a type of reciprocating engine),  the expansion of burning fuel in the cylinders periodically pushes the piston down, which, through the connecting rod , turns the crankshaft . The continuing rotation of the crankshaft drives the piston back up, ready for the next cycle. The piston moves in a reciprocating motion, which is converted into the 
circular motion of the crankshaft, which ultimately propels the vehicle or does other useful work. [ citation needed ] The reciprocating motion of a pump piston is close to but different from, sinusoidal simple harmonic motion . Assuming the wheel is driven at a perfect constant rotational velocity, the point on the crankshaft which connects to the connecting rod rotates smoothly at a constant velocity in a circle. Thus, the displacement of that point is indeed exactly sinusoidal by definition.  However, during the cycle, the angle of the connecting rod changes continuously, so the horizontal displacement of the "far" end of the connecting rod (i.e., connected to the piston) differs slightly from sinusoidal. Additionally, if the wheel is not spinning with perfect constant rotational velocity, such as in a steam locomotive starting up from a stop, the motion will be even less sinusoidal. [ citation needed ] See also [ edit ] Oscillation – Repetitive variation of some measure about a central value Stroboscope – Instrument used to make a cyclically moving object appear to be slow-moving, or stationary Reciprocating saw – Type of machine powered saw Reciprocating engine – Engine utilising one or more reciprocating pistons Rotary reciprocating saw – Type of mechanical saw Agitation – Device or mechanism which shakes or stirs something Scotch yoke – Mechanism to convert between rotational and reciprocating motion Crank – Arm attached to a rotating shaft for circular motion Crankshaft – Mechanism for converting reciprocating motion to rotation Swashplate – Mechanism to convert between reciprocating and rotary motion Trip hammer – Type of blacksmithing tool Slider-crank linkage – Mechanism for converting rotary motion into linear motion Straight line mechanism – Mechanisms generating real or approximate straight line motion Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Reciprocating compressor – Device used to pump gases at high pressure Sun and planet gear – Type of gear used in early beam engines References [ edit ] ^ Mobley, Keith R (2001). Plant Engineer's Handbook . USA: Butterworth-Heinemann. pp. 723– 755. ISBN 0 7506 7328 1 . This engineering-related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Reciprocating_motion&oldid=1254454958 " Categories : Mechanical engineering Engineering stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from May 2022 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from May 2022 Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated link All stub articles