https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Needle_valve

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of valve with a small port This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Needle valve" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2007 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Giffard steam water injector (B-needle valve). A needle valve. A needle valve is a type of valve with a small port and a threaded , needle-shaped plunger. It allows precise regulation of flow , although it is generally only capable of relatively low flow rates. Construction and operation [ edit ] An instrument needle valve uses a tapered pin to gradually open a space for fine control of flow. The flow can be controlled and regulated with the use of a spindle. A needle valve has a relatively small orifice with a long, tapered seat, and a needle-shaped plunger on the end of a screw, which exactly fits the seat. As the screw is turned and the plunger retracted, flow between the seat and the plunger is possible; however, until the plunger is completely retracted, the fluid flow is significantly impeded. Since it takes many turns of the fine-threaded screw to retract the plunger, precise regulation of the flow rate is easily possible. The virtue of the needle valve is from the vernier effect of the ratio between the needle's length and its diameter, or the difference in diameter between needle and seat. A long travel axially (the control input) makes for a very small and precise change radially (affecting the resultant flow). Needle valves may also be used in vacuum systems , when a precise control of gas flow is required, at low pressure, [ 1 ] such as when filling gas-filled vacuum tubes , gas lasers and similar devices. Uses [ edit ] Electrically automated needle valve fluid on a fluid processing system. Needle valves are usually used in flow-metering applications, especially when a constant, calibrated, low flow rate must be maintained for some time, such as the idle fuel flow in a carburettor . Note that the float valve of a carburettor (controlling the fuel level within the carburettor) is not a needle valve, although it is commonly described as one. It uses a bluntly conical needle, but it seats against a square-edged seat rather than a matching cone. The intention here is to obtain a well-defined seat between two narrow mating surfaces, giving firm shutoff of the flow from only a light float pressure. Needle valves are also commonly used to provide shut off for the pressure gauge or on applicators to shut off the supply of NH3 to the knives in anhydrous ammonia (NH3) applications. [ 2 ] Since flow rates are low and many turns of the valve stem are required to completely open or close, needle valves are not used for simple shutoff applications. Since the orifice is small and the force advantage of the fine-threaded stem is high, needle valves are usually easy to shut off completely, with merely "finger-tight" pressure.  The spindle and/or seat of a needle valve, especially one made from brass , are easily damaged by excessive turning force when shutting off the flow. Small, simple needle valves are often used as bleed valves in water-heating applications. Unlike a ball valve or valves with a rising stem, it is not easy to tell from examining the handle position whether the valve is open or closed. See also [ edit ] Ball valve Butterfly valve Control valve Diaphragm valve Flow limiter Gate valve Globe valve Mass flow controller Plastic pressure pipe systems Plug valve References [ edit ] ^ Ward, L.; Bunn, J.P. (1967). Introduction to the Theory and Practice of High Vacuum Technology . Butterworths. pp. 125– 126. ^ "NH3 (Anhydrous Ammonia) Needle Valves" . v t e Plumbing Fundamental concepts Air gap (plumbing) Backflow Compatibility (chemical) Corrosion Drain (plumbing) Drinking water Fuel gas Friction loss Grade (slope) Greywater Heat trap Hydrostatic loop Leak Neutral axis Onsite sewage facility Pressure Sanitary sewer Sewer gas Sewage Sewerage Siphon Storm sewer Stormwater Surface tension Tap water Thermal expansion Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Trap (plumbing) Venturi effect Wastewater Water hammer Water supply network Water table Well Technology Brazing British Standard Pipe (BSP) Cast iron pipe Chemical drain cleaners Compression fitting Copper tubing Crimp (joining) Drain-waste-vent system Ductile iron pipe Flare fitting Garden Hose Thread (GHT) Gasket Hydronics Leak detection National pipe thread (NPT) Nominal Pipe Size (NPS) O-ring Oakum Pipe (fluid conveyance) Pipe dope Pipe support Plastic pipework Push-to-pull compression fittings Putty Sealant Sewage pumping Soldering Solvent welding Swaging Thread seal tape Threaded pipe Tube bending Water heat recycling Components Atmospheric vacuum breaker Automatic bleeding valve Automatic faucet Backflow prevention device Ball valve Bleed screw Booster pump Butterfly valve Check valve Chemigation valve Chopper pump Circulator pump Cistern Closet flange Concentric reducer Condensate pump Coupling (piping) Diaphragm valve Dielectric union Double check valve Eccentric reducer Expansion tank Faucet aerator Float switch Float valve Floor drain Flow limiter Flushing trough Flushometer Gate valve Globe valve Grease trap Grinder pump Hose coupling Manifold Needle valve Nipple (plumbing) Pinch valve Piping and plumbing fitting Plug (sanitation) Pressure regulator Pressure vacuum breaker Pressure-balanced valve Pump Radiator (heating) Reduced pressure zone device Reducer Relief valve Riser clamp Rooftop water tower Safety valve sewage pumping Street elbow Submersible pump Tap (valve) Thermostatic mixing valve Trench drain Vacuum breaker Vacuum ejector Valve Water tank Zone valve Plumbing fixtures Accessible bathtub Bathtub Bidet Dehumidifier Dishwasher Drinking fountain Electric water boiler Evaporative cooler Flush toilet Garbage disposal unit Hot water storage tank Humidifier Icemaker Instant hot water dispenser Laundry tub Shower water recycling shower Sink Storage water heater Sump pump Tankless water heating Urinal Washing machine Washlet Water dispenser Water filter Water heating Water softening Specialized tools Basin wrench Blowtorch Borescope Core drill Drain cleaner Driving cap Flare-nut wrench Pipecutter Pipe wrench Plumber's snake Plumber wrench Plunger Strap wrench Tap and die Measurement and control Control valve Flow sensor Pressure sensor Water detector Water metering Professions, trades, and services Hydronic balancing Hydrostatic testing Leak detection Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Pipe marking Pipefitter Pipelayer Plumber Industry organizations and standards International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) NSF International Plumbing & Drainage Institute (PDI) Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC) World Plumbing Council (WPC) Health and safety Plumbing code Scalding Waterborne disease See also Fire sprinkler system Piping Template:HVAC Template:Public health Template:Sewerage Template:Human waste elimination Template:Wastewater Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Needle_valve&oldid=1201466730 " Categories : Valves Plumbing valves Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from December 2007 All articles needing additional references