https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_(mechanics)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Transmission (mechanics) ) Drivetrain transmitting propulsion power For other uses of the word "transmission", see Transmission . "Gearbox" redirects here. For other uses, see Gearbox (disambiguation) . Transmission internals for a 2009 Volkswagen Golf A transmission (also called a gearbox ) is a mechanical device invented by Louis Renault (who founded Renault ) which uses a gear set —two or more gears working together—to change the speed, direction of rotation, or torque multiplication or reduction, in a machine . [ 1 ] [ 2 ] A transmission can have a single, or fixed , gear ratio or it can have variable ratios; a variable-ratio transmission can have multiple discrete gear ratios or be continuously variable . Variable-ratio transmissions are used in many kinds of machinery, especially vehicles. Applications [ edit ] Early uses [ edit ] Early transmissions included the right-angle drives and other gearing in windmills , horse -powered devices, and steam -powered devices. Applications of these devices included pumps , mills and hoists . [ citation needed ] Bicycles [ edit ] Main article: Bicycle gearing Bicycles conventionally have used hub gear or derailleur gear transmissions, but there are other more recent design innovations. Automobiles [ edit ] Power and torque curves for two example car engines Since the torque and power output of an internal combustion engine (ICE) varies with its (rotational) speed , automobiles powered by ICEs require multiple gear ratios to keep the engine within its power band to produce optimal power, fuel efficiency , and smooth operation. Multiple gear ratios are also needed to provide sufficient acceleration and velocity for safe and reliable operation at modern highway speeds. ICEs typically operate over a range of approximately 600–7000 rpm, while the vehicle's speeds requires the wheels to rotate in the range of 0–1800 rpm. [ 3 ] In the early mass-produced automobiles, the standard transmission design was manual : the combination of gears was selected by the driver through a lever (the gear stick ) that displaced gears and gear groups along their axes.  Starting in 1939, cars using various types of automatic transmission became available in the US market.  These vehicles used the engine's own power to change the effective gear ratio depending on the load so as to keep the engine running close to its optimal rotation speed. Automatic transmissions now are used in more than two thirds of cars globally, and on almost all new cars in the US. Most currently produced passenger cars with gasoline or diesel engines use transmissions with 4–10 forward gear ratios (also called speeds ) and one reverse gear ratio. Electric vehicles typically use fixed-ratio or two-speed transmissions with no reverse , as electric motors can operate efficiently across wider ranges of speed, all the way down to stopped, and change directions electrically. Electrical vehicles with more than one driven axle often have separate front and rear motors and drive trains rather than longitudinal drive shafts. Transmission for a Bristol Sycamore helicopter Motorcycles [ edit ] Main article: Motorcycle transmission Fixed-ratio [ edit ] The simplest transmissions used a fixed ratio to provide either a gear reduction or increase in speed, sometimes in conjunction with a change in the orientation of the output shaft. Examples of such transmissions are used in helicopters and wind turbines . In the case of a wind turbine, the first stage of the gearbox is usually a planetary gear, to minimize the size while withstanding the high torque inputs from the turbine. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Multi-ratio [ edit ] Many transmissions – especially for transportation applications – have multiple gears that are used to change the ratio of input speed (e.g. engine speed) to the output speed (e.g. the speed of a car) as required for a given situation. Gear (ratio) selection can be manual, semi-automatic, or automatic. Manual [ edit ] Main article: Manual transmission A manual transmission requires the driver to manually select the gears [ 6 ] by operating a gear stick and clutch (which is usually a foot pedal for cars or a hand lever for motorcycles). Early manual transmissions were non-synchronized and used straight cut gears, the latter means that while the gears move they make a distinct and loud whining sound, nowadays making them applicable only to heavy machinery like trucks, buses and tractors since they can withstand higher forces, or motorcycles and racing cars for the simple design and reductions in weight compared to common manual transmissions. Most transmissions in modern cars use the synchromesh design to synchronise the speeds of the input and output shafts. However, prior to the 1950s, most cars used non-synchronous transmissions . 16-speed tractor transmission (plus 8 reverse gears) Mazda M5OD manual transmission (viewed from the engine side) Animation of a 4-speed sequential manual transmission Sequential manual [ edit ] Main article: Sequential manual transmission A sequential manual transmission is a type of non-synchronous transmission used mostly for motorcycles and racing cars. It produces faster shift times than synchronized manual transmissions, through the use of dog clutches rather than synchromesh. [ 7 ] Sequential manual transmissions also restrict the driver to selecting either the next or previous gear, in a successive order. Due to sequential transmissions being designed for reduction in complexity, weight and size for their use cases, unlike common manual transmissions, which are designed for simplicity of use and quiet operation, they use straight cut gears ( spur gears ), which produce a very characteristic whining sound while spinning. Sequential transmissions can produce more than one distinct whining sound depending on the specific design, but usually the most audible whine changes in pitch with (corresponds to) the speed of the wheels (output shaft), and gets more audible the faster the gears spin. Non-synchronized manual (dog box) [ edit ] Nicknamed a "dog box", it is a modern variant of a non-synchronized manual transmission which is constant mesh and used in performance applications, for example, racing. Manual transmissions like this lack the synchronizing part of the synchromesh design and use only the dog clutches specifically made for dog boxes to engage gears. For engagement, the selector fork slides a dog clutch with teeth on its side directly onto the side of a constant mesh gear with a similar set of teeth or slots for them, which engages the dog teeth and the gear. This design allows for faster and also clutchless shifts, unlike a synchromesh design, but has the advantage of constant mesh, unlike older non-synchronized transmissions used in first automobiles. Since first gear is mostly used only for taking off, and having 2nd and 3rd gear across each other gives a time advantage with the more common shift from second to third or backwards when racing, majority of dog box shifters use a shift pattern called "dog leg", which puts 1st gear into the left-down position, meaning 2nd gear is center-up, 3rd is center-down and so on. Reverse is usually, but not always, in the left-up position. Semi-automatic [ edit ] A semi-automatic transmission is where some of the operation is automated (often the actuation of the clutch), but the driver's input is required to move off from a standstill or to change gears. Automated manual / clutchless manual [ edit ] Main articles: Automated manual transmission and Clutchless manual transmission An automated manual transmission (AMT) is essentially a conventional manual transmission that uses automatic actuation to operate the clutch and/or shift between gears. Many early versions of these transmissions were semi-automatic in operation, such as Autostick , which automatically control only the clutch , but still require the driver's input to initiate gear changes. Some of these systems are also referred to as clutchless manual systems. [ 8 ] Modern versions of these systems that are fully automatic in operation, such as Selespeed and Easytronic , can control both the clutch operation and the gear shifts automatically, without any input from the driver. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] Automatic [ edit ] An automatic transmission does not require any input from the driver to change forward gears under normal driving conditions. Hydraulic automatic [ edit ] Main article: Hydraulic automatic transmission The most common design of automatic transmissions is the hydraulic automatic, which typically uses planetary gearsets that are operated using hydraulics . [ 11 ] [ 12 ] The transmission is connected to the engine via a torque converter (or a fluid coupling prior to the 1960s), instead of the friction clutch used by most manual transmissions and dual-clutch transmissions. [ 13 ] Hydraulic automatic transmission (cutaway view) Epicyclic gearing diagram, as used in hydraulic automatic transmissions Cutaway view of a ZF 6HP hydraulic automatic transmission Dual-clutch (DCT) [ edit ] Main article: Dual-clutch transmission A dual-clutch transmission (DCT) uses two separate clutches for odd and even gear sets . [ 14 ] The design is often similar to two separate manual transmissions with their respective clutches contained within one housing, and working as one unit. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] In car and truck applications, the DCT functions as an automatic transmission, requiring no driver input to change gears. Continuously-variable ratio [ edit ] Main article: Continuously variable transmission A continuously variable transmission (CVT) can change seamlessly through a continuous range of gear ratios . This contrasts with other transmissions that provide a limited number of gear ratios in fixed steps. The flexibility of a CVT with suitable control may allow the engine to operate at a constant speed while the vehicle moves at varying speeds. CVTs are used in cars, tractors, side-by-sides , motor scooters, snowmobiles , bicycles, and earthmoving equipment . The most common type of CVT uses two pulleys connected by a belt or chain ; however, several other designs have also been used at times. Noise and vibration [ edit ] Gearboxes are often a major source of noise and vibration in vehicles and stationary machinery.  Higher sound levels are generally emitted when the vehicle is engaged in lower gears. The design life of the lower ratio gears is shorter, so cheaper gears may be used, which tend to generate more noise due to smaller overlap ratio and a lower mesh stiffness etc. than the helical gears used for the high ratios. This fact has been used to analyze vehicle-generated sound since the late 1960s, and has been incorporated into the simulation of urban roadway noise and corresponding design of urban noise barriers along roadways. [ 17 ] Gear design [ edit ] Main articles: Gear and Gear failure mechanism Gears are machine elements aimed to transmit power, their proper design is defined by standard. The standard ISO 6336 [ 18 ] and AGMA 2001 [ 19 ] provide informations regarding the design procedure and define calculation method to verify if gears are safe with respect to different failure mechanism. Without a correct design and manufacturing of the gears the transmission could present low efficiency, high NVH and low lifetime. Gears present several failure mechanism, which are: wear , scuffing, pitting, micro-pitting , tooth flank fracture and tooth root fatigue fracture. These mechanisms are due to several phenomena: friction , contact (Hertzian pressure, sliding/rolling), bending fatigue and lack of lubrication . All these phenomena can happen simultaneously and they lead to the failure of the gearbox. See also [ edit ] Look up transmission in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Transmissions . Bicycle gearing Direct-drive mechanism List of auto parts Transfer case References [ edit ] ^ J. J. Uicker; G. R. Pennock; J. E. Shigley (2003). Theory of Machines and Mechanisms (3rd ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780195155983 . ^ B. Paul (1979). Kinematics and Dynamics of Planar Machinery . Prentice Hall. ^ Naunheimer, Harald; Bertsche, Bernd; Ryborz, Joachim; Novak, Wolfgang (2011). "Power Conversion: Selecting the Ratios". Automotive Transmissions: Fundamentals, Selection, Design and Application . Springer. pp. 100– 114. doi : 10.1007/978-3-642-16214-5_4 . ISBN 978-3-642-16214-5 . Retrieved 21 January 2023 . ^ Stiesdal, Henrik (August 1999), The wind turbine: Components and operation (PDF) , retrieved 2009-10-06 ^ Musial, W.; Butterfield, S.; McNiff, B. (May 2007), Improving Wind TurbineGearbox Reliability (PDF) , National Renewable Energy Laboratory, archived from the original (PDF) on September 23, 2012 , retrieved July 2, 2013 ^ "Manual Transmission Operation" . YouTube . Retrieved 21 January 2023 . ^ "How Sequential Gearboxes Work" . www.howstuffworks.com . 4 April 2003 . Retrieved 2 January 2020 . ^ "Hyundai Created a Clutch-less Manual Transmission" . 10 July 2020. ^ "Directly from the Formula 1" . www.magnetimarelli.com . Retrieved 26 July 2020 . ^ "Introduction to Automatic Transmission Systems" . www.tranzmile.com . Retrieved 1 August 2020 . ^ "How Automatic Transmissions Work" . www.howstuffworks.com . 29 November 2000 . Retrieved 22 November 2020 . ^ "What Makes Automatic Transmissions Automatic" . Popular Mechanics . Hearst Magazines: 169– 173. February 1955 . Retrieved 22 November 2020 . ^ "How does the AT work?" . AW North Carolina . Archived from the original on 6 October 2014 . Retrieved 6 October 2014 . ^ "Powertrain — transmissions: Shift in power to the gearbox" (PDF) . AMS . UnofficialBMW.com. September–October 2003. Archived (PDF) from the original on 17 July 2011 . Retrieved 31 October 2009 . ^ "Automatic-shifting dual-clutch transmissions are poised to grab share from traditional transmissions thanks to their combination of efficiency and convenience" (PDF) . AEI-online.org . DCTfacts.com. June 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 October 2011 . Retrieved 31 October 2009 . ^ "Porsche Doppelkupplung (PDK)" . Porsche.com. Archived from the original on 5 December 2008 . Retrieved 31 October 2009 . ^ Hogan, C. Michael; Latshaw, Gary L. (21–23 May 1973). The Relationship Between Highway Planning and Urban Noise . Proceedings of the ASCE, Urban Transportation Division Specialty Conference. Chicago, Illinois: American Society of Civil Engineers, Urban Transportation Division. Archived from the original on 18 May 2007 . Retrieved 12 September 2007 . ^ "ISO 6336-1:2019 Calculation of load capacity of spur and helical gears Part 1: Basic principles, introduction and general influence factors" . ISO . ^ "ANSI/AGMA 2001 - Fundamental Rating Factors and Calculation Methods for Involute Spur and Helical Gear Teeth" . v t e Gears Systems Spur gear systems Worm drive Rack and pinion Epicyclic (planetary) gearing Sun and planet gear Harmonic drive Cycloidal drive Non-circular gear Shapes Spur Bevel Crown Spiral bevel Helical Herringbone Geartooth profiles Involute Cycloid Mechanics Transmission Differential Coupling Train Bicycle gearing Continuously variable transmission Offset Examples Bicycles Cogset Derailleur Hub gear Shaft-driven bicycle Sprocket Horology Wheel train See also Ball screw Leadscrew Jackscrew Belt drive Chain drive Gear manufacturing Freewheel Spur gear corrected tooth v t e Powertrain Part of the Automobile series Automotive engine Diesel engine Electric Fuel cell Hybrid ( Plug-in hybrid ) Internal combustion engine Petrol engine Steam engine Transmission Automatic transmission Chain drive Direct-drive Clutch Constant-velocity joint Continuously variable transmission Coupling Differential Direct-shift gearbox Drive shaft Dual-clutch transmission Drive wheel Automated manual transmission Electrorheological clutch Epicyclic gearing Fluid coupling Friction drive Gearshift Giubo Hotchkiss drive Limited-slip differential Locking differential Manual transmission Manumatic Parking pawl Park-by-wire Preselector gearbox Semi-automatic transmission Shift-by-wire Torque converter Transaxle Transfer box Transmission control unit Universal joint Wheels and tires Wheel hub assembly Wheel Rim Alloy wheel Hubcap Tire Off-road Racing slick Radial Rain Run-flat Snow Spare Tubeless Hybrid Electric motor Hybrid vehicle drivetrain Electric generator Alternator Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Transmission_(mechanical_device)&oldid=1324071241 " Categories : Mechanical power transmission Mechanisms (engineering) Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2023 Articles with hatnote templates targeting a nonexistent page Commons link is locally defined