https://www.motortrend.com/news/encor-series-1-lotus-esprit-first-look-review

The Encor Series 1 Reimagines the Lotus Esprit With 400 HP and Carbon-Fiber Precision Bored with All Those 911 Restomods? The Lotus Esprit–based Encor Series 1 is for You. It features a 400-hp quad-cam and flat-plane-crank V-8, will hit 175 mph, and looks stunning. Angus MacKenzie Writer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 23, 2025 See All 10 Photos 10 Got more than half a million bucks burning a hole in your pocket but bored with all those 911 restomods ? Then the Encor Series 1, a stunning reimagination of the iconic Lotus Esprit, could be just what you’re looking for. It weighs barely 300 pounds more than a Mazda Miata roadster and is powered by a twin-turbo, quad-cam, flat-plane-crank, mid-mounted V-8 that develops 400 horsepower and drives the rear wheels through a five-speed manual transmission. Lighter and simpler than the original—not to mention much better built—it’s the kind of Esprit that Lotus founder Colin Chapman could have only dreamed of making. The Encor Series 1 combines hardware from the post-1998 Lotus Esprit V8 with design themes from the four-cylinder-powered 1976 Esprit originally styled by Giorgetto Giugiaro. And it’s Colin Chapman’s innovative engineering that made it all possible. In simple terms, Encor takes an Esprit V8 donor car, unbolts the original glass-reinforced plastic body from the steel backbone chassis, and replaces it with a beautifully rendered carbon-fiber homage to Maestro Giugiaro of its own design. The execution is a lot more complex, of course. The engine, suspension, and other ancillaries are removed from that steel backbone chassis, which is taken back to bare metal. It’s galvanized, so, unusually for an older British car, rust isn’t a problem prior to it being repainted. The suspension is upgraded to match the specification of the Sport 350—the last and most potent of the Esprit V8s—and reassembled with new bushings throughout. Mostly original Lotus parts are used, including the hydraulic power steering system, but Encor has developed stronger rear hub carriers to fix a chronic cracking problem that has long plagued those on the Esprit V8. See All 10 Photos 10 Rebuilt, Reinforced, and Ready for Real Power The 3.5-liter Lotus V-8 engine, originally code-named Type 918, is completely stripped and rebuilt. It gets forged pistons, upgraded injectors, new turbocharger internals, a new electronic throttle body, modern fuel and cooling systems, and a new stainless-steel exhaust. The five-speed transaxle, originally sourced by Lotus from Renault, has been reworked in conjunction with engineers from British transmission specialists Quaife, receiving a stronger input shaft, revised ratios, a helical limited-slip differential, and a twin-plate clutch. The stronger input shaft fixes a long-running weak point in the drivetrain that forced Lotus engineers to dial the Type 918’s output back from 500 hp to 350 hp when the Esprit V8 was launched in 1996, while the twin-plate setup makes the clutch much lighter to use. See All 10 Photos 10 Honoring Giugiaro Without Being Trapped by the Past Although it retained a strong resemblance to the Giugiaro original, by the time the V8 was launched, the Esprit’s bodywork had been reworked first by Peter Stevens (who went on to design the McLaren F1 , among other things), and then Julian Thomson (who did the Lotus Elise before going to Jaguar Land Rover, where he worked on cars such as the first-generation Range Rover Evoque and Jaguar F-Type). Styled by Encor’s design director, former Lotus designer Dan Durrant, the Encor Series 1 body represents a distillation of Giugiaro’s sharp-edged, wedge-shaped Lotus concept first seen at the 1972 Turin Show. “We’re not handcuffed by the original,” Durrant says, “but we’re completely inspired by it.” The carbon-fiber body has allowed Durrant to clean up and simplify the car’s overall look compared with the Lotus original, bringing it closer to Giugiaro’s 1972 concept in both form and detail. The black line that ran right around the original Esprit’s midsection, for example, was there because it hid the external flanges Lotus used to join the upper and lower elements of the two-piece glass-reinforced plastic body. The Encor car’s one-piece carbon-fiber body allows for smoother bodysides and less fussy detailing around the front and rear fascias. See All 10 Photos 10 Durrant’s design has the flat roof and trapezoidal windshield of the original Esprit (the Peter Stevens redesign put a slight crown on the roof) as well as the subtle Kamm tail and discrete front spoiler element handing under the tapered nose. The front and rear fascias are cleaner and simpler than those of the original Esprit, with modern LED running lights up front and similar taillights at the rear. In the Esprit V8, the engine was hidden under a simple cover between buttressed C-pillars. In the Encor Series 1, it’s visible under a glass backlight, just like the four-cylinder engine was in the 1976 car. The five-spoke, forged billet wheels are 17 inches at the front and 18 inches at the rear, shod with generously sidewalled Bridgestone Potenza tires—a combination similar to that used on the last of the Esprit V8s. “Wheels were a real topic of discussion,” Durrant says. “Inflate the wheel size too much, and you can completely unbalance the visuals of the car. It starts to look like a toy.” Behind the wheels, the apertures of which are essentially scaled up versions of those on the original Esprit’s five-slot Wolfrace alloys, are AP Racing brakes. See All 10 Photos 10 Two small design elements that for Lotus aficionados instantly link the Encor Series 1 with the original Esprit are the six small vents at the base of the windshield and the distinctive fuel filler can inset into the left C-pillar. “The silhouette and the key shapes on the car are very, very close to the Giugiaro original, but refined and honed in every way,” Durrant says. “We’ve made just small adjustments here and there to add elements that wouldn't have been possible when the car was originally produced. And because carbon fiber is such a robust and dimensionally accurate material, it means that we can do the things that customers want, like nice tight shut gaps and flush mounted glass.” Other benefits the new body brings include significant improvements in rigidity and safety. Right until it went out of production in 2004, the Esprit V8 had a plywood (!) firewall between the engine bay and the passenger compartment. The Encor body has a double-layer carbon-fiber firewall that connects to the cant rails in the roof. These contain tubular carbon-fiber elements that run down either side of the windshield to the structure supporting the dash and the doors and are also linked across the top of the windshield to form a passenger safety cell. See All 10 Photos 10 A Retro Cabin with Modern Tech Where It Counts Like the exterior, the interior of the Encor Series 1 pays homage to the original Esprit, most notably in terms of the two-spoke steering wheel and the architecture of the center console, but with materials and technologies that give it a modern edge. The instrument panel is a case in point. The free-standing, wraparound pod of the original Esprit is reimagined as a light metal structure with a state-of-the-moment digital screen at the center, flanked by smaller touchscreens on wings angled toward the driver. The center console features a portrait-format touchscreen. From the driver’s perspective, all the Encor Series 1’s touchpoints—the relationship between the steering wheel and the shifter and the pedals—are identical to those of the original Esprit. That’s the good news. The bad news? It’s a tight fit in there. Although 6.6 inches longer in the wheelbase than a contemporary Porsche 911, the original Esprit was 8 inches lower. Headroom is at a premium if you’re more than 6 feet tall. One of the reasons Encor chose to use the original Lotus seat frames in its Series 1 was not only that they were light, but also that most modern seats were simply too tall. Encor managing director William Ives promises the Encor Series 1 will be easy to live with, however. In addition to air conditioning, it will come equipped with a full infotainment setup that includes high-end audio, all designed and engineered by Ives’ main business, Skyships Automotive, which supplies similar equipment to high-end, low-volume automakers such as Aston Martin, McLaren, and Pagani . And you can forget all those old Lotus horror stories about the Lucas, Prince of Darkness electrics. The Encor Series 1’s entire electrical architecture, right down to the new electronic throttle body, has also been designed by Skyships and is state-of-the-art. See All 10 Photos 10 The car you see here is the first prototype and will soon begin testing to set up the suspension. Given that it weighs less than a production-spec Esprit V8, the spring and shock rates will need to be tuned, along with complete final systems checks and calibrations. The production Esprit V8 nailed the 0–60-mph sprint in 4.1 seconds and 0–100 in 10.2 seconds on the way to a 12.7-second quarter mile at 112 mph. As it’s expected to weigh some 400 pounds less than that Esprit and boasts 50 more horsepower, the Encor Series 1 should be quicker en route to its clamed 175-mph top speed. Encor plans to build just 50 cars over two years, and production is slated to start in 2026. And yes, the Encor Series 1 will be available in a left-hand-drive configuration, as well. Of the 1,400 or so Esprit V8s built, just under half were exported to the U.S., so there’s a good pool of donor cars available for American enthusiasts to choose from. Base price is, on current exchange rates, about $570,000 plus shipping, taxes, and the cost of a donor Esprit V8. Nope, it’s not cheap. But then again, neither is a 911 restomod with this level of engineering and quality. See All 10 Photos 10 Angus MacKenzie Share You May Also Like