https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southwest_Research_Institute

Coordinates : 29°26′33″N 98°36′45″W ﻿ / ﻿ 29.4425°N 98.6125°W ﻿ / 29.4425; -98.6125 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Applied research and development nonprofit organization in Texas, USA "SWRI" redirects here. For the charity, see Scottish Women's Rural Institutes . This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view . Please discuss further on the talk page . ( November 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Southwest Research Institute" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( November 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Southwest Research Institute Logo Abbreviation SwRI Formation 1947 ; 78 years ago ( 1947 ) Founders Thomas Slick, Jr. Type Independent research and development Location San Antonio, Texas , United States Official language English Revenue Nearly $915 million (FY 2024) Employees more than 3,200 (FY 2024) Website swri .org Southwest Research Institute ( SwRI ), headquartered in San Antonio , Texas , is an independent and nonprofit applied research and development (R&D) organization. Founded in 1947 by oil businessman Tom Slick , [ 1 ] it provides contract research and development services to government and industrial clients. Description [ edit ] The institute consists of 10 technical divisions. The Center for Nuclear Waste Regulatory Analyses, a federally funded research and development center sponsored by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, also operates on the SwRI grounds. More than 4,000 projects are active at the institute at any given time. These projects are funded between the government and commercial sectors. At the close of fiscal year 2024, the staff numbered approximately 3,200 employees and research volume was nearly $915 million. The institute provided more than $11 million to fund research through its internally sponsored R&D program. A partial listing of research areas includes space science and engineering; automation, robotics , and intelligent systems; avionics and support systems; bioengineering ; chemistry and chemical engineering ; corrosion and electrochemistry ; earth and planetary sciences; emissions research; engineering mechanics; fire technology; fluid systems and machinery dynamics; and fuels and lubricants. Additional areas include geochemistry; hydrology and geohydrology; materials sciences and fracture mechanics; nondestructive evaluation; oil and gas exploration; pipeline technology; surface modification and coatings; and vehicle, engine, and powertrain design, research, and development. In 2024, staff members published 559 papers in the technical literature and made 714 presentations at technical conferences, seminars and symposia around the world; and submitted 50 invention disclosures; filed 35 patent applications; and received 35 U.S. patent awards. For more than 75 years, Southwest Research Institute has addressed challenges from deep sea to deep space and everywhere in between. For example, early work in submersibles has led to engineers developing remotely operated deep water rescue vehicles for the U.S. and Australian navies. SwRI is currently adapting extensive expertise in engines, fuels and lubricants for electrified powertrains and alternative fuels research. SwRI's initiatives in robotics and artificial intelligence enable automated vehicles, medical diagnostic support and industrial maintenance, including a mobile robot to remove coatings from commercial aircraft using laser ablation. SwRI operates a large space science and engineering program, which is home to principal investigators for five major NASA missions, including the Juno mission to Jupiter , the New Horizons mission to Pluto and the Kuiper belt , the Lucy mission to multiple Trojan asteroids near Jupiter, and the PUNCH mission to image the outer reaches of the solar corona . SwRI's experience also includes advanced pharmaceuticals, direction finding antennas, cybersecurity, and aircraft and infrastructure life extension. SwRI initiates contracts with clients based on consultations and prepares a formal proposal outlining the scope of work. Subject to client wishes, programs are kept confidential. As part of a long-held tradition, patent rights arising from sponsored research may be assigned to SwRI's clients. SwRI generally retains the rights to institute-funded advancements. The institute's headquarters occupy more than 2.4 million square feet of office and laboratory space on more than 1,500 acres in San Antonio. SwRI has technical offices and laboratories in Boulder, Colorado; Ann Arbor, Michigan; Warner-Robins, Georgia; Ogden, Utah; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Rockville, Maryland; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Beijing, China; and other locations. SwRI's technical magazine is published three times each year to spotlight the research and development projects currently underway. A complementary Technology Today podcast is also available. In 1950, the institute was the focus of Research Ranch , a Screenliner short subject produced by RKO-Pathé studios . [ 2 ] Technical divisions [ edit ] The organization consists of ten divisions, each with their own respective field: Applied Power Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Defense and Intelligence Solutions Fuels and Lubricants Research Intelligent Systems Mechanical Engineering Powertrain Engineering Space Systems Space Science Solar System Science See also [ edit ] NESSUS Probabilistic Analysis Software Associated Universities, Inc. References [ edit ] ^ "History" . Southwest Research Institute . 2016-07-17. Archived from the original on 2017-04-29 . Retrieved 2019-12-08 . ^ "Research Story In Many Lines" . Daily News . New York, New York City. December 24, 1950. p. 90. Archived from the original on August 27, 2022 . Retrieved August 27, 2022 – via Newspapers.com . External links [ edit ] Official website Quick facts Product certification directory Southwest Research Institute from the Handbook of Texas Online "Form 990 Filed with IRS" (PDF) . Foundation Center . SwRI. 2013. 29°26′33″N 98°36′45″W ﻿ / ﻿ 29.4425°N 98.6125°W ﻿ / 29.4425; -98.6125 v t e City of San Antonio Nickname: Alamo City Topics Architecture Culture History Neighborhoods Metropolitan Area San Antonio River ( Springs ) Attractions The Alamo Alamo Cenotaph Acequia Madre de Valero La Antorcha de la Amistad Basilica of the National Shrine of the Little Flower Cathedral of San Fernando Convention Center Earl Abel's Guenther House HemisFair '68 Houston Street La Villita Market Square Rivercenter River Walk St. Joseph Catholic Church Tower of the Americas Tower Life Building San Antonio Zoo Museums Artpace Blue Star Contemporary Art Museum Buckhorn Saloon & Museum Casa Navarro State Historic Site Guadalupe Cultural Arts Center Institute of Texan Cultures McNay Art Museum Museo Alameda Museum of Aerospace Medicine O. Henry House Museum Ruby City San Antonio Museum of Art Spanish Governor's Palace Edward Steves Homestead Texas Air Museum Texas Transportation Museum United States Army Medical Department Museum USAF Airman Heritage Museum Witte Museum Yturri-Edmunds Historic Site See also: List of museums in Central Texas Entertainment Alamo City Comic Con Arneson River Theater Aztec on the River Charline McCombs Empire Theatre Fiesta Noche del Rio Fiesta San Antonio Freeman Coliseum Majestic Theatre Morgan's Wonderland Ripley's Believe It or Not! San Japan Santikos Theatres SeaWorld San Antonio Six Flags Fiesta Texas Splashtown San Antonio St. Mary's Strip Texas Folklife Festival Tobin Center for the Performing Arts ( San Antonio Symphony ) San Antonio Municipal Auditorium Woodlawn Theatre Industry Bill Miller Bar-B-Q Enterprises Christus Santa Rosa iHeartMedia Frost Bank H-E-B Jim's Restaurants Luby's M7 Aerospace NewTek NuStar Energy Rackspace San Antonio Express-News SAS Shoemakers (SAS) San Antonio Water System Security Service Federal Credit Union Taco Cabana Toyota Motor Manufacturing Texas USAA Valero Energy Visionworks of America Whataburger Research and education The Alamo Colleges Baptist Health System School of Health Professions Cancer Therapy & Research Center Greehey Children's Cancer Research Institute Oblate School of Theology Our Lady of the Lake University San Antonio Public Library San Antonio Municipal Archives South Texas Medical Center Texas Biomedical Research Institute Southwest Research Institute St. Mary's University Texas A&M University–San Antonio Texas Neurosciences Institute Trinity University University Health System University of the Incarnate Word University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio University of Texas at San Antonio Military San Antonio Military Medical Center Brooks City-Base Camp Bullis Fort Sam Houston Lackland Air Force Base Pershing House Randolph Air Force Base Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center Neighborhoods Alamo Heights Alazán-Apache Courts Brooks Dominion Downtown Inwood La Cantera Mahncke Park Monte Vista Pearl Pecan Valley Stone Oak Thompson Field Parks Acequia San Antonio Botanical Garden Brackenridge Park Denman Estate Park Dwight D. Eisenhower Park Friedrich Wilderness Park Government Canyon State Natural Area Phil Hardberger Park Mahncke Milam Park Miraflores Park Roosevelt Park San Antonio Japanese Tea Garden San Antonio Missions National Historical Park San Pedro Springs Park O. P. Schnabel Park Travis Park Sports Alamodome ( UTSA Roadrunners football ) Frost Bank Center ( San Antonio Spurs ) Gayle and Tom Benson Stadium ( Incarnate Word Cardinals football ) Nelson W. Wolff Municipal Stadium ( San Antonio Missions ) Toyota Field ( San Antonio FC ) Freeman Coliseum San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo Transportation San Antonio International Airport Amtrak Station VIA Metropolitan Transit Other Mayor San Antonio Fire Department San Antonio Police Department Bexar County San Antonio–New Braunfels Metro Authority control databases International ISNI 2 VIAF National United States Norway Israel Academics CiNii Other IdRef Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Southwest_Research_Institute&oldid=1286615064 " Categories : Research institutes in Texas Multidisciplinary research institutes Companies based in San Antonio Research institutes established in 1947 Independent research institutes Non-profit organizations based in Texas 1947 establishments in Texas Research organizations in the United States Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from November 2024 Articles needing additional references from November 2024 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Pages using infobox mapframe without shape links in Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using the Kartographer extension