https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hood_(car)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Hinged cover over the engine of motor vehicles This article is about a part of a vehicle. For other uses, see Hood . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Hood" car – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( March 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A flipfront provides easy access to the engine bay ( Saab Sonett ) The hood ( American English ) or bonnet ( Commonwealth English ) is the hinged cover over the front of motor vehicles . This can open to allow access to the engine compartment (for front-engined vehicles) or luggage compartment (for rear-engined vehicles). Terminology [ edit ] An infant wearing a hood. Elderly woman in sunbonnet The hood on a 1937 Ford V8 Convertible In British terminology, hood refers to a fabric cover over the passenger compartment of the car (known as the 'roof' or 'top' in the US).  In many motor vehicles built in the 1930s and 1940s, the resemblance to an actual hood or bonnet is clear when open and viewed head-on. In modern vehicles it continues to serve the same purpose but no longer resembles a head covering. Styles and materials [ edit ] On front-engined cars, the hood may be hinged at either the front or the rear edge, or in earlier models (e.g. the Ford Model T ) it may be split into two sections, one each side, each hinged along the centre line. Another variant combines the bonnet and wheelarches into one section which allows the entire front bodywork to tilt forwards around a pivot near the front of the vehicle (e.g. that of the Triumph Herald ). [ 1 ] Hoods are typically made of the same material as the rest of the body work. This may include steel , aluminium , fiberglass or carbon fiber . Some aftermarket companies produce replacements for steel hoods in fiberglass or carbon fiber to reduce vehicle weight. Release/ safety and security mechanisms [ edit ] The hood release system is common on most vehicles and usually consists of an interior hood latch handle, hood release cable and hood latch assembly. The hood latch handle is usually located below the steering wheel, beside the driver's seat or set into the door frame. On race cars or cars with aftermarket hoods (that do not use the factory latch system) the hood may be held down by hood pins. Some aftermarket hoods that have a latch system are still equipped with hood pins to hold the hood buttoned down if the latch fails. Features [ edit ] The distinctive power bulge of an E-type Jaguar A hood may contain a hood ornament , hood scoop , and/or wiper jets. A portion of the hood may be raised in a power bulge , to fit a large engine or air filters. Pedestrian safety [ edit ] In Japan and Europe, regulations have come into effect that place a limit on the severity of pedestrian head injury when struck by a motor vehicle. [ 2 ] This is leading to more advanced hood designs, as evidenced by multicone hood inner panel designs as found on the Mazda RX-8 and other vehicles. Other changes are being made to use the hood as an active structure and push its surface several centimeters away from the hard motor components during a pedestrian crash. This may be achieved by mechanical (spring force) or pyrotechnic devices. [ citation needed ] Some hoods may need a power bulge to fit over the engine and air filters, or enhance the aesthetic appearance of the hood A flipfront hood A rear-hinged clamshell hood on a Saab 9-5 See also [ edit ] Front-end bra List of auto parts Trunk (automobile) References [ edit ] ^ Huddy, S. G. J. (15 February 2012). "Brent Knoll" . Trains, ferries, buses . UK . Retrieved 2 November 2019 . ^ Teng, Tso Liang; Liang, Cho-Chung; Shih, Chien-Jong; Nguyen, Manh-Trung (January 2013). "Design of car hood of sandwich structures for pedestrian safety" . Retrieved 2 November 2019 . v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hood_(car)&oldid=1323396588 " Category : Automotive body parts Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from March 2015 All articles needing additional references Use American English from July 2020 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use dmy dates from July 2020 Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2018