https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starter_ring_gear

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Typical starter ring gear A starter ring gear is a part attached to an internal combustion engine that is part of the assembly which transfers the torque from the starter motor to the engine's crankshaft , in order to start the engine. The starter ring gear is usually made from medium carbon steel. Starter ring gears are attached to either the flywheel or the flexplate of an engine. The teeth of the ring gear are driven by the smaller gear (known as the pinion) of the starter motor.  The pinion engages the starter ring only during starting and once the engine is running the pinion withdraws. Manufacture [ edit ] The starter ring gear is most commonly made by forming a length of square or rectangular steel bar into a circle and welding the ends together. This ring is then machined to create flat surfaces of the required inner and outer diameters. The gear teeth are then created using a hobbing tool, followed by processes to chamfer, deburr and clean the gear teeth. [ 1 ] Attachment [ edit ] Starter ring gear attached to a flywheel In cars with a manual transmission , the starter ring gear is fitted to the outer diameter of the flywheel . The ring gear is usually fixed to the flywheel through use of an interference fit, [ 2 ] which is achieved by heating the ring gear and so that thermal expansion allows it to be placed around the flywheel. [ 3 ] In cars with an automatic transmission , the starter ring gear is usually welded to the outside of the flexplate . [ 4 ] See also [ edit ] Flywheel Starter motor References [ edit ] ^ "Starter Ring Gear Manufacturing" . AmtechInternational.com . Retrieved 10 December 2019 . ^ "Replacement of Worn Starter Ring Gears" (PDF) . Lycoming. May 9, 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 11, 2014 . Retrieved 2014-12-09 . ^ "Installing a Ring Gear on a Flywheel" . MossMotoring.com . Retrieved 13 December 2019 . ^ "Flexplate - What Does It Do? What Happens When It Fails?" . DannysEnginePortal.com . 24 November 2019 . Retrieved 13 December 2019 . v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Starter_ring_gear&oldid=1138624082 " Categories : Automotive transmission technologies Engine components Gears