https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synchronous_reluctance_motor

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Synchronous reluctance motor ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Reluctance motor" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( April 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Type of electric motor Cross-section of switched reluctance machine with 6 stator poles and 4 rotor poles, showing the which stators are activated and the magnetic field lines. Cross-section of switched reluctance machine with 6 stator poles and 4 rotor poles. Notice the concentrated windings on the stator poles. A reluctance motor is a type of electric motor that induces non-permanent magnetic poles on the ferromagnetic rotor. The rotor does not have any windings. It generates torque through magnetic reluctance . Reluctance motor subtypes include synchronous, variable, switched and variable stepping. Reluctance motors can deliver high power density at low cost, making them attractive for many applications. Disadvantages include high torque ripple (the difference between maximum and minimum torque during one revolution) when operated at low speed, and noise due to torque ripple. [ 1 ] Until the early twenty-first century, their use was limited by the complexity of designing and controlling them. [ disputed – discuss ] Advances in theory, computer design tools, and low-cost embedded systems for control overcame these obstacles. Microcontrollers use real-time computing control algorithms to tailor drive waveforms according to rotor position and current/voltage feedback. Before the development of large-scale integrated circuits , the control electronics were prohibitively costly. Design and operating fundamentals [ edit ] The stator consists of multiple projecting (salient) electromagnet poles, similar to a wound field brushed DC motor . The rotor consists of soft magnetic material, such as laminated silicon steel , which has multiple projections acting as salient magnetic poles through magnetic reluctance . For switched reluctance motors, the number of rotor poles is typically less than the number of stator poles, which minimizes torque ripple and prevents the poles from all aligning simultaneously—a position that cannot generate torque. When a rotor pole is equidistant from two adjacent stator poles, the rotor pole is said to be in the "fully unaligned position". This is the position of maximum magnetic reluctance for the rotor pole. In the "aligned position", two (or more) rotor poles are fully aligned with two (or more) stator poles, (which means the rotor poles completely face the stator poles) and is a position of minimum reluctance. When a stator pole is energized, the rotor torque is in the direction that reduces reluctance. Thus, the nearest rotor pole is pulled from the unaligned position into alignment with the stator field (a position of less reluctance). (This is the same effect used by a solenoid , or when picking up ferromagnetic metal with a magnet .) To sustain rotation, the stator field must rotate in advance of the rotor poles, thus constantly "pulling" the rotor along. Some motor variants run on 3-phase AC power (see the synchronous reluctance variant below). Most modern designs are of the switched reluctance type, because electronic commutation gives significant control advantages for motor starting, speed control and smooth operation (low torque ripple). The inductance of each phase winding in the motor varies with position, because the reluctance also varies with position. This presents a control systems challenge. Types [ edit ] Synchronous reluctance [ edit ] Synchronous reluctance motors (SynRM) have an equal number of stator and rotor poles. The projections on the rotor are arranged to introduce internal flux "barriers", holes that direct the magnetic flux along the so-called direct axis. The number of poles must be even, typically 4 or 6. The rotor operates at synchronous speeds without current-conducting parts. Rotor losses are minimal compared to those of an induction motor , however it normally has less torque . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Once started at synchronous speed, the motor can operate with sinusoidal voltage. Speed control requires a variable-frequency drive . High-powered SynRMs typically require rare-earth elements such as neodymium and dysprosium . However, a 2023 study reported the use of a dual-phase magnetic laminate to replace them. Magnetizing such a material creates highly magnetized regions, serving as the rotor poles, while leaving other regions non-magnetic (nonpermeable). In one experiment using high-temperature nitriding to increase strength, a dual-phase rotor output 23 kW at 14,000 RPM with a power density of 1.4 kW and 94% peak efficiency, while a comparable conventional rotor produced 3.7 kW. The use of nonpermeable posts and bridges allows them to be larger and stronger, reducing interfence between the flux lines of the rotor and the stator. One limitation is that magnetization is limited to 1.5 T , compared to conventional motors 2 T. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Switched reluctance or variable reluctance [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Switched reluctance motor . [ edit ] Switched reluctance motor with magnetic flux lines The switched reluctance motor (SRM) is a type of reluctance motor. Unlike brushed DC motors , power is delivered to windings in the stator (case) rather than the rotor . This simplifies mechanical design because power does not have to be delivered to the moving rotor, which eliminates the need for a commutator . However it complicates the electrical design, because a switching system must deliver power to the different windings and limit torque ripple . [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Sources disagree on whether it is a type of stepper motor . [ 9 ] The simplest SRM has the lowest construction cost of any electric motor. Industrial motors may have some cost reduction due to the lack of rotor windings or permanent magnets. Common uses include applications where the rotor must remain stationary for long periods, and in potentially explosive environments such as mining, because no commutation is involved. The windings in an SRM are electrically isolated from each other, producing higher fault tolerance than induction motors . The optimal drive waveform is not a pure sinusoid , due to the non-linear torque relative to rotor displacement, and the windings' highly position-dependent inductance. Applications [ edit ] Analog electric meters Analog electric clocks Some washing machine designs Control rod drive mechanisms of nuclear reactors Hard disk drive motor Electric vehicles [ 10 ] Power tools such as drill presses, lathes, and bandsaws See also [ edit ] Electric vehicle motor Flux switching alternator , a similar machine arrangement, used as a generator Switched reluctance motor Stepper motor References [ edit ] ^ "Acoustic noise in home appliances due to torque ripple in motor drives – part 1 - Motor Drive & Control - Blogs - TI E2E Community" . e2e.ti.com . Retrieved 2019-04-09 . ^ Magazine, Smithsonian; Osborne, Margaret. "This 17-Year-Old Designed a Motor That Could Potentially Transform the Electric Car Industry" . Smithsonian Magazine . Retrieved 2022-08-19 . ^ "ETSD014 - Investigating a Novel Electric Motor Design" . Society for Science . Retrieved 2022-08-19 . ^ Zorpette, Glenn (15 March 2024). "Who Will Free EV Motors from the Rare Earth Monopoly?" . IEEE . Retrieved 2024-06-04 . ^ Ismagilov, Flur; Vavilov, Vyacheslav; Pronin, Egor; Yushkova, Oxana; Zherebtsov, Alexey (2023-12-15). "Investigation of technologies for manufacturing dual-phase magnetic steels for elements of electric machines: A review" . Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials . 588 171320. doi : 10.1016/j.jmmm.2023.171320 . ISSN 0304-8853 . ^ Huang, Shenyan; Zou, Min; Zhang, Wanming; Rallabandi, Vandana; Dial, Laura; Buresh, Steve; Zierer, Joseph; Jassal, Anoop; Johnson, Francis (2023-02-01). "Development of dual phase soft magnetic laminate for advanced electric machines" . AIP Advances . 13 (2). doi : 10.1063/9.0000380 . ISSN 2158-3226 . ^ Bartos, Frank (1 February 2003). "Springtime for Switched-Reluctance Motors?" . Control Engineering . Archived from the original on 19 May 2020. Digital signal processors and special algorithms in SR controls are vital to precisely time current pulses fed to the motor windings relative to rotor and stator position . SR technology has not experienced real breakthroughs . reduced interest in SR technology ^ Stankovic, A.M.; Tadmor, G.; Coric, Coric (October 6–10, 1996). Low torque ripple control of current-fed switched reluctance motors . IAS '96. Conference Record of the 1996 IEEE Industry Applications Conference Thirty-First IAS Annual Meeting. San Diego, Cal. doi : 10.1109/IAS.1996.557001 . S2CID 61325620 . Retrieved June 3, 2024 . [ dead link ] ^ Bartos, Frank (1 March 2010). "Resurgence for SR Motors, Drives?" . Control Engineering . Archived from the original on 19 May 2020. SR drives operate at switching frequencies typically 10 times lower than comparable ac drives . Some other sources seem to put both motors in the same category. Emotron concurs that today's SR motor is not a stepping motor since current is continuously monitored and controlled relative to rotor angular position ^ [17-Year-Old Boy's Electric Motor Design Could Revolutionize EVs
Story by Dustin Wheelen • Aug 16, 2022, CNN.com https://www.msn.com/en-ca/autos/news/17-year-old-boy-s-electric-motor-design-could-revolutionize-evs/ar-AA10Ju0j ] External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Switched reluctance machines . Real-Time Simulation of Switched Reluctance Motor Drives Technical Paper v t e Electric machines AC - Alternating current DC - Direct current PM - Permanent magnet Components Rotor Stator Winding Armature Field coil Damper winding Slip ring Commutator Brush Generators AC generator Alternator Flux switching alternator Linear alternator PM synchronous generator Magneto Induction generator Doubly fed induction generator Single-phase generator DC generator Dynamo Homopolar generator Motors AC motor Induction motor Shaded-pole motor Dahlander pole changing motor Wound rotor motor Linear induction motor Doubly fed electric machine Synchronous motor Repulsion motor DC motor Brushed DC electric motor Brushless DC electric motor Stepper motor Homopolar motor Universal motor Reluctance motor Switched reluctance motor Synchronous reluctance motor Axial flux motor Radial flux motor PM motor Dual-rotor motor Linear motor Ball bearing motor Electrostatic motor Piezoelectric motor Ultrasonic motor Servomotor Traction motor TEFC motor Motor controllers and other accessories AC-to-AC converter Cycloconverter Amplidyne Drives Variable-frequency drive Direct torque control Vector control Metadyne Motor soft starter Ward Leonard control Braking chopper DC injection brake module History, education, recreational use Timeline of the electric motor Barlow's wheel Lynch motor Mendocino motor Mouse mill motor Experimental, futuristic Coilgun Railgun Superconducting machine Related topics Blocked-rotor test Circle diagram Coil winding technology Electromagnetism Open-circuit test Open-loop controller Power-to-weight ratio Two-phase system Inchworm motor Starter Voltage controller People Arago Barlow Botto Davenport Davidson Dolivo-Dobrovolsky Faraday Ferraris Gramme Henry Jacobi Jedlik Lenz Maxwell Ørsted Park Pacinotti Pixii Saxton Siemens Sprague Steinmetz Sturgeon Tesla Authority control databases National United States Latvia Israel Other Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Reluctance_motor&oldid=1314984636#Synchronous_reluctance " Category : Electric motors Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from July 2024 Articles needing additional references from April 2019 All articles needing additional references Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All accuracy disputes Articles with disputed statements from July 2020 Articles with excerpts Commons category link is locally defined