https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pearson%27s_Coupling

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Coupling mechanism for railway carriages Pearson's Coupling - Side Elevation and Sectional Plan, 1909 Pearson's Coupling was a safety relevant improvement for connecting the hoses of the Westinghouse Air Brake Company between railway carriages. History [ edit ] If a train was accidentally divided, the drawing apart of the hose pipes would cause the brakes to be applied on both sections of the severed train. However, in shunting operations, it was necessary to have an arrangement by which the carriages may be disconnected when required, without the application of the brakes. Thus, a train-cock was installed at each end of the carriage where the hose-pipes were attached. If the hose-pipes were disconnected, and the train-cocks left open, the brakes were applied throughout the train. Therefore, train-cocks had to be provided. [ 1 ] The not infrequent forgetfulness of a shunter to open the train-cocks after coupling-up the hose-pipes has caused accidents in the past. A further risk in connection with these cocks lied in the fact that they could be tampered with by passengers. Out of eleven accidents in New Zealand , eight have been the result of somebody's negligence in leaving train-cocks closed. [ 1 ] In Pearson's invention the cocks are necessarily closed and the levers engaged by the lugs, before the heads could be coupled together. The action of turning the heads upon one another, while the levers were engaged by the lugs caused the cocks to open, because the ports of the plugs registered with the ports in the cocks, leaving the brakes in a condition ready to be applied. The heads could not be uncoupled in the ordinary way without the operations being reversed and the cocks left open. If the heads were accidentally pulled apart, as by the severance of a train, the cocks remained open, and the brakes were thereby applied. [ 1 ] Pearson's Westinghouse brake coupling for railway use Pearson's Westinghouse brake coupling Pearson's Westinghouse brake coupling References [ edit ] ^ a b c Westinghouse Brakes: Pearson's Coupling. Good Work by a New Zealand Inventor. Progress, Volume IV, Issue 6, 1 April 1909. Page 203. This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain . v t e Railway brakes Types Counter-pressure brake Countersteam brake Dynamic brake Eddy current brake Electromagnetic brake Exhaust brake Heberlein brake Hand brake Kunze-Knorr brake Railway air brake Disc brake Railway disc brake Regenerative brake Steam brake Track brake Vacuum brake Manufacturers Faiveley Transport Knorr-Bremse ( New York Air Brake ) Westinghouse Air Brake Company Westinghouse Brake and Signal Company Other aspects Brake van Diesel brake tender Diesel electric locomotive dynamic braking Electronically controlled pneumatic brakes Electro-pneumatic brake system on British railway trains Emergency brake (train) Retarder Dowty retarders Related topics Air brake Bicycle brake Brake Dead man's switch Drum brake Engine braking Hydraulic brake Pearson's Coupling Pneumatics Railroad Safety Appliance Act (United States) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pearson%27s_Coupling&oldid=1214419144 " Category : Railway brakes Hidden categories: Source attribution Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata