https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69732251/2026-toyota-urban-cruiser-details

VIEW GALLERY Toyota Add this one to the list of little, affordable EVs we miss out on. The Toyota Urban Cruiser, a cute, subcompact crossover, is designed for the automaker’s expanding European battery-electric lineup but likely won’t hit showrooms on this side of the Atlantic. The Urban Cruiser will face a tough lineup of challengers in one of the Europe’s most competitive segments, however, one dominated by already established nameplates. Built on a dedicated new BEV platform, the Urban Cruiser comes with one of two lithium-iron phosphate battery options: a 49-kWh pack and a larger 61-kWh unit. Toyota says the smaller battery in front-drive models will deliver up to 214 miles of range in the generous WLTP cycle, while the 61-kWh version stretches that to as much as 265 miles. An all-wheel-drive variant, using a second electric motor on the rear axle, offers up to 245 miles of range. Related Story Here’s Why Ford Is Betting on LFP Batteries Like other automakers following the same technological line of thinking, Toyota says the use of LFP battery chemistry is meant to prioritize durability and cost control. The automaker ensures that cost savings with its Battery Care Program, which guarantees at least 70% capacity for up to 10 years or 62,000 miles so long as owners complete annual battery health checks. Fast charging from 10% to 80% takes about 45 minutes, says Toyota. Size-wise, the Urban Cruiser slots below the updated bZ4X and above the upcoming C-HR+, but Toyota insists that, despite its compact footprint, the Urban Cruiser will feel like a proper SUV. The 106.3-inch wheelbase makes for a spacious cabin for the little ute, while a sliding and split-folding rear seat gives the Urban Cruiser cargo flexibility. VIEW GALLERY Toyota Inside, the Urban Cruiser sports a 10.25-inch driver display integrated with a 10.1-inch multimedia touchscreen. Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard, with remote functions like charging management and cabin pre-conditioning handled through Toyota’s MyToyota app. On the road, drivers can choose Eco, Normal, and Sport drive modes, along with one-pedal driving via adjustable regenerative braking. All-wheel-drive models add Snow and Trail modes for tougher conditions, and extensive driver-assistance and safety features come standard—a combination US buyers could been keen on. Natalie Neff But for a couple of sketchy, short-lived gigs right out of college, Natalie Neff has had the good fortune to spend the entirety of her professional life around cars. A 2017 Honda Ridgeline, 1972 VW Beetle, 1999 Ducati Monster and a well-loved purple-and-white five-speed Schwinn currently call her garage home.