https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motor_Trend

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American automobile magazine Motor Trend Cover of the 75th anniversary issue (Summer 2024) Editor-in-Chief Edward Loh [ 1 ] Categories Automobile magazine Frequency Quarterly (print) Monthly (Digital) Total circulation (June 2022) 553,838 [ 2 ] First issue September 1949 ; 76 years ago ( 1949-09 ) Company Motor Trend Group ( Hearst Communications ) Country United States Based in El Segundo, California , U.S. Language English Website www .motortrend .com ISSN 0027-2094 Motor Trend is an American automobile magazine. It first appeared in September 1949, [ 3 ] and designated the first Car of the Year , also in 1949. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Petersen Publishing Company in Los Angeles published Motor Trend until 1998, when it was sold to British publisher EMAP , who then sold the former Petersen magazines to Primedia Inc. in 2001. Motor Trend bears the tagline "The Magazine for a Motoring World". As of 2024 it is published by Motor Trend Group . It has a monthly circulation of over one million. [ 6 ] Publication was monthly but changed to quarterly in 2024. [ 7 ] In December 2024, Hearst Communications acquired Motor Trend Group and most its assets including Motor Trend from Warner Bros. Discovery . [ 8 ] Contents and sections [ edit ] The contents of Motor Trend magazines are divided up into sections, or departments. Road tests [ edit ] Motor Trend magazine provides its readers with written "road tests" of vehicles. These road tests are published in each issue and are meant to give readers information about the featured vehicle, certain aspects of the vehicle, and what the readers can expect if the featured vehicle is purchased. Vehicle comparisons [ edit ] There are two main types of Motor Trend vehicle comparisons. Regular comparisons usually compare two to three vehicles, looking at what each is like to own, drive, etc. On Motor Trend ' s YouTube channel (titled "MotorTrend Channel"), Motor Trend puts up their best comparison of the month on a series called "Head 2 Head," featuring MotorTrend editors comparing cars on YouTube. "Big Test" comparisons typically feature anywhere from five to seven vehicles, all being compared against each other. In a way, a vehicle comparison is like a large road test featuring many vehicles, rather than just one. The Trend [ edit ] The Trend provides readers with the latest what's happening in the automotive industry. This section may feature news about manufacturers, recalls, etc. "Newcomers" (recently redesigned or all-new models), along with short informative articles about them, can also be found in this section. MotorTrend Garage [ edit ] Motor Trend keeps a fleet of long-term test cars at their headquarters in Los Angeles, California . The majority of the Motor Trend editors are each assigned a car, and their duty is to drive that car on a daily basis and report on what's happening. Each month, one to two new vehicles are added to the fleet, to replace the one to two vehicles leaving the fleet. Each long-term test lasts approximately one calendar year . Not every vehicle receives a printed update each month, though the vehicles are still there. This section is typically located towards the end of the magazine. Other features [ edit ] Other types of articles are sometimes featured in the Motor Trend magazine . There is typically one special feature per month. For example, in one issue of the magazine, there may be a special feature about Motor Trend ' s "Real MPG" testing. For these tests, Motor Trend measures the "real-world" fuel economy of a vehicle in a number of conditions, and then compares their results to the EPA estimated fuel economy that manufacturers provide dealerships, who then provide it to their customers. Motor Trend Car of the Year [ edit ] Further information: Motor Trend Car of the Year The Chevrolet Volt won the COTY award in 2011. One of the earliest and most enduring of the magazine's creations was its Car of the Year award, given almost continuously since 1949, [ 4 ] [ 5 ] although the phrase itself would not become entrenched until well into the 1950s. It predates the European Car of the Year award begun in 1964. The first winner was the 1949 Cadillac , which featured an innovative overhead valve V8 engine ; while the company initially turned down the award from the brand new magazine, it now proudly references its COTY wins in publicity materials. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] The award has gone through several splits and permutations over the years, being called the Golden Wheels Award for a while in the 1970s and having given rise to Truck of the Year and Import Car of the Year , as well as SUV of the Year . Nevertheless, it is still coveted by manufacturers and is usually covered by the mainstream press as the most important distinction awarded in the American auto industry. New car guides [ edit ] The magazine releases a special edition every September and October listing the latest new 
vehicles. The September issue looks at the latest cars ( sedans , coupes , etc.) for the next coming calendar year , whilst in October the magazine looks at off-roaders , MPVs and sport-utility vehicles (SUVs). Offshoots [ edit ] Truck Trend [ edit ] Truck Trend magazine presented features and the latest news about the truck, SUV, and crossover segments.  Additionally, the Readers' Rides section allowed readers to post images and information about their own vehicles. [ 11 ] Truck Trend began in 1995 as "Truck Trends," a section of Motor Trend itself.  It became the stand-alone publication Truck Trend in 1997. Truck Trend magazine ceased production in December 2019, as one of the nineteen magazines that Motor Trend Group ceased publication during that month. [ 12 ] Motor Trend Classic [ edit ] Motor Trend Classic included articles about significant classic cars from around the world made during the last 60 years. A total of 23 issues were produced. The first run was eight issues: two undated issues in 2005, and six additional bimonthly issues in 2006. Several years later the title was relaunched, and that second run was fifteen issues: quarterly from Spring 2010 through Spring 2013, then a combined Spring/Fall 2013 issue, with the final Summer 2014 issue appearing a year later. Motor Trend On Demand [ edit ] Motor Trend On Demand is an online television service. It features television series from Motor Trend , Automobile Magazine , Hot Rod , Super Street and Four Wheeler , such as Roadkill . In 2015, TEN bought Torque.TV and integrated it into the service, adding coverage of motorsports competitions such as Blancpain GT Series , Pirelli World Challenge , Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters , V8 Supercars , British Touring Car Championship , TCR International Series , FIA European Formula 3 Championship , European Le Mans Series , Australasian Safari , Motoamerica , Endurance FIM World Championship , Motocross World Championship , AMA EnduroCross Championship , and FIM SuperEnduro World Championship . Motor Trend Network [ edit ] Main article: Motor Trend (TV network) In April 2018, following the acquisition of a majority stake in TEN by Discovery Communications , it was announced that its U.S. cable channel Velocity would rebrand as Motor Trend Network later in the year. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] [ 15 ] Italy [ edit ] Main article: Motor Trend (Italian TV channel) In Italy , the channel Motor Trend began broadcasting on April 29, 2018, at 6:00 am with the Car Crash TV in place of Focus , whose brand has meanwhile passed into the hands of Mediaset . [ 16 ] Used car warranty [ edit ] In 2009, Motor Trend introduced a certified used car program, [ 17 ] beginning with dealers in Atlanta, Georgia ; and Cincinnati, Ohio . As explained in their press release, the program is powered by EasyCare. References [ edit ] ^ "Motor Trend Names New Editor-in-Chief" . November 17, 2011. ^ "AAM: Total Circ for Consumer Magazines" . Audit Bureau of Circulations . Archived from the original on September 19, 2022 . Retrieved September 19, 2022 . ^ David N. Lucsko (October 7, 2008). The Business of Speed: The Hot Rod Industry in America, 1915–1990 . JHU Press. p. 247. ISBN 978-0-8018-8990-5 . Retrieved July 24, 2015 . ^ a b Jil McIntosh (November 18, 2009). "Ford Fusion: It's tops with MotorTrend" . Retrieved February 9, 2020 . ^ a b "The World's Best Car Magazines" . Essel Group - Daily News Analysis India. July 24, 2008 . Retrieved February 9, 2020 . ^ "MotorTrend" . Echo Media . Retrieved February 10, 2017 . ^ "Motor Trend to Suspend Monthly Publication 1Q24; Will Go" (Press release). November 19, 2023 . Retrieved June 1, 2024 – via GM Inside News. ^ "MotorTrend Acquired by Hearst, Owner of Car and Driver, Road & Track" . The Drive . December 12, 2024 . Retrieved December 17, 2024 . ^ Flory, J. "Kelly" Jr. (2008). American Cars 1946-1959 . Jefferson, NC: McFarland & Coy. p. 190. ^ "Cadillac CTS Scores Second Motor Trend Car of the Year® Award" (Press release). Cadillac. November 7, 2013 . Retrieved July 25, 2015 . ^ "Reader's Rides | Rate My Ride, Car Photo Galleries" . Truck Trend . Archived from the original on June 6, 2013. ^ Greg Dool (December 6, 2019). "TEN Publishing Is Shuttering 19 Car Magazines" . Folio . Retrieved March 22, 2020 . ^ Evans, Greg (August 3, 2017). "Discovery Communications Partners With TEN Network For Auto Portfolio" . Deadline . Retrieved September 18, 2017 . ^ Petski, Denise (April 10, 2018). "Discovery Rebrands Velocity As Motor Trend Network" . Deadline . Retrieved April 20, 2018 . ^ Littleton, Cynthia (April 10, 2018). "Discovery Rebrands Velocity as Motor Trend Network (EXCLUSIVE)" . Variety . Retrieved April 20, 2018 . ^ "Dal 29 aprile arriva Motor Trend sul canale 56 del digitale terrestre. Focus sul 35 dal 17 maggio" (in Italian). ^ Ramsey, Jonathon (January 24, 2009). "Motor Trend getting into the used car business" . Autoblog " . Retrieved January 24, 2009 . External links [ edit ] www .motortrend .com v t e Hearst Communications Daily newspapers The Advocate Austin American-Statesman Times Union Beaumont Enterprise Chron.com Connecticut Post The Courier (Conroe, Texas) The Dallas Morning News Edwardsville Intelligencer Greenwich Time The Hour Houston Chronicle Huron Daily Tribune Journal-Courier Laredo Morning Times Manistee News Advocate The Middletown Press Midland Daily News Midland Reporter-Telegram New Haven Register The News-Times MySA.com The Pioneer Plainview Herald Record-Journal The Register Citizen San Antonio Express-News San Francisco Chronicle seattlepi.com SFGate The Telegraph Connecticut Magazine Weekly newspapers Al Día The Bastrop Advertiser Benzie County Record Patriot The Berlin Citizen Canyon News Cleveland Advocate Eastex Advocate Examiner Newspapers (Bellaire, Memorial, River Oaks, West University) La Voz de Houston The Lake Houston Observer New Canaan Advertiser Pasadena Citizen The Potpourri (Magnolia and Tomball) Shoreline Times Sugar Land Sun The Villager (The Woodlands, Texas) Magazines United States Autoweek Best Products Bicycling Car and Driver Cosmopolitan Country Living Delish Elle Elle Decor Esquire Food Network Magazine Good Housekeeping Harper's Bazaar House Beautiful HGTV Men's Health Oprah Daily Popular Mechanics Prevention Redbook Road & Track Runner's World Seventeen Shondaland The Pioneer Woman Town & Country Woman's Day Women's Health Motor Trend Group Hot Rod Motor Trend International Bicycling Car and Driver Cosmopolitan Country Living Delish Elle Elle Decor Esquire Good Housekeeping Harper's Bazaar House Beautiful Men's Health Prevention Runner's World Women's Health United Kingdom Best Digital Spy Inside Soap Prima RED Italy Gente Marie Claire Marie Claire Maison The Netherlands JAN Quest Quest Junior Quote Spain Fotogramas Japan 25Ans 25Ans Wedding ELLE Girl Fujingaho Hodinkee Men's Club Modern Living Richesse Hearst Television ABC KETV KHBS KHOG KMBC-TV KOAT-TV KOCO-TV KSBW .2 WAPT WCVB-TV WMUR-TV WISN-TV WJCL WMTW WPBF WTAE-TV WZVN-TV ** CBS KCCI WLKY Independent WMOR-TV MyNetworkTV KQCA NBC KCRA-TV KSBW WBAL-TV WBBH-TV WDSU WESH WGAL WLWT WPTZ WVTM-TV WXII-TV WYFF The CW KCWE KHBS .2 KHOG .2 KQCA WCWG WKCF WNNE WPXT Radio WBAL WIYY Entertainment A&E Networks (50%) ESPN Inc. (20%) Hearst Media Production Group King Features Syndicate NorthSouth Productions (50%) Reed Brennan Media Associates Business Black Book First Databank Fitch Group BMI Research Motor Marketplaces Bring a Trailer First Finds Men's Health Shop Oprah Daily Shop Real estate CDS Global Hearst Tower Hearst Service Center Hearst Ranch ** Owned by a third party and operated by Hearst Television. v t e Motor Trend Group Part of Hearst Magazines Automobile Car Craft CarDomain Four Wheeler European Car Hot Rod Jp Lowrider Motor Trend TV network Italy Petersen's 4-Wheel & Off-Road Roadkill Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Motor_Trend&oldid=1320762211 " Categories : Motor Trend Group Automobile magazines published in the United States Quarterly magazines published in the United States Magazines established in 1949 Magazines published in California 1949 establishments in California Hearst Communications publications Hidden categories: CS1 Italian-language sources (it) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use mdy dates from March 2025