https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radiator_(heating)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Heat exchanger for space heating This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Radiator" heating – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A cast iron household radiator Heat exchange by built-in bathroom radiator uses hot water flow through the stainless steel pipes seen here to raise the temperature of the ambient air. The radiator depicted here also serves as a towel rack and warmer. Radiators and convectors are heat exchangers designed to transfer thermal energy from one medium to another for the purpose of space heating. Denison Olmsted of New Haven, Connecticut, appears to have been the earliest person to use the term 'radiator' to mean a heating appliance in an 1834 patent for a stove with a heat exchanger which then radiated heat. In the patent he wrote that his invention was "a peculiar kind of apparatus, which I call a radiator". [ 1 ] The heating radiator was invented by Franz San Galli in 1855, a Kingdom of Prussia -born Russian businessman living in St. Petersburg . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] In the late 1800s, companies, such as the American Radiator Company , promoted cast iron radiators over previous fabricated steel designs in order to lower costs and expand the market. Radiation vs. convection [ edit ] A radiator is a device that transfers heat to a medium primarily through thermal radiation .  In practice, the term radiator is often applied to any  number of devices in which a fluid circulates through exposed pipes (often with fins or other means of increasing surface area), notwithstanding that such devices tend to transfer heat mainly by convection and might logically be called convectors . The terms convection heater and convector refer to a class of devices in which the source of heat is not directly exposed. As domestic safety and the supply from water heaters keep temperatures relatively low, radiation is inefficient in comparison to convection. [ citation needed ] Energy source [ edit ] Steam [ edit ] A cast iron radiator with single-pipe steam supply and radiator air vent Steam has the advantage of flowing through pipes under its own pressure without the need for pumping.  For this reason, it was adopted earlier, before electric motors and pumps became available. Steam is also far easier to distribute than hot water throughout large, tall buildings like skyscrapers . However, the higher temperatures at which steam systems operate make them inherently less efficient, as unwanted heat loss is inevitably greater. Steam pipes and radiators are prone to producing banging sounds called steam hammer . The bang is created when some of the steam condenses into water in a horizontal section of the steam piping. Subsequently, steam picks up the water, forms a "slug" and hurls it at high velocity into a pipe fitting, creating a loud hammering noise and greatly stressing the pipe. This condition is usually caused by a poor condensate drainage strategy and is often caused by buildings settling and the resultant pooling of condensate in pipes and radiators that no longer tilt slightly back towards the boiler . [ citation needed ] Hot water [ edit ] Hot-water baseboard-style radiator (top) which is covered (left) and opened (right), with inside view (bottom) showing the aluminium fins which are attached in series to the copper pipe A hot-water radiator consists of a sealed hollow metal container filled with hot water from a boiler or other heating device by gravity feed, a pump, or natural convection . As it gives out heat, the hot water cools and sinks to the bottom of the radiator and is forced out of a pipe at the other end. Anti-hammer devices are often installed to prevent or minimize knocking in hot water radiator pipes. Electricity [ edit ] Unlike steam or hot water systems which receive heat from a boiler, electric radiators produce heat from electricity at the location of the radiator. This heat may be transferred to a fluid (such as oil) inside the radiator. The oil circulates inside the radiator by convection, which distributes the heat from the heating element to the surface of the radiator.  Smaller electric radiators have the advantage of being portable, as they do not need to be connected to pipework. Some electric radiators can also use hot water; this is particularity common for heated towel rails , where the radiator uses hot water when the central heating system is running but switches to electricity when heating the whole building is not required. Shape and design [ edit ] Cast iron [ edit ] Cast iron radiators may be used with hot water or steam systems. Traditional cast iron radiators are no longer common in new construction, replaced mostly with forced hot water baseboard or panel radiators, but they remain available. Hot-water baseboard [ edit ] Hot-water baseboard convectors (often referred to as "fin-tube radiators") consist of copper pipes which have aluminum fins attached to increase their surface area.  Conduction is used to transfer heat from the water circulated in the pipes into the metal radiators or convectors. Baseboard convectors are designed to heat the air in the room using convection to transfer heat from the radiators to the surrounding air. [ 4 ] They do this by drawing cool air in at the bottom, warming the air as it passes over the radiator fins, and discharging the heated air at the top. This sets up convective loops of air movement within a room. If the radiator is blocked either from above or below, this air movement is prevented, and the heater will not work. Baseboard heating systems are sometimes fitted with moveable covers to allow the resident to fine-tune heating by room, much like air registers in a central air system. Panel radiator [ edit ] Panel radiators are welded from flat or corrugated steel panels, and are usually hung from the wall. They are usually used with hot water systems, but electric versions are also available. The panels often have fins attached, increasing the surface area and therefore the rate of heat transfer into the air (power). Several panels may be stacked together to make one radiator, and the resulting radiator is referred to with a two-digit type number. The first digit is the number of panels, and the second is the number of sets of fins, for example a type 21 radiator has two panels with one set of fins in between. Air flow around the radiator and between the panels is by convection only, and must be unrestricted if the radiator is to reach its design performance. The heat output of panel radiators is regulated by controlling the flow of hot water, with either a manual or a thermostatic valve. Aluminium radiators [ edit ] Radiators can also be made from aluminium which is a very good conductor of heat and has better thermal conductivity compared to that of steel. Aluminium radiators tend to have a low water content so this combined with the excellent thermal conductivity qualities of the metal itself make aluminium radiators very responsive to changes in the temperature demand. [ 5 ] Fan-assisted heat exchanger [ edit ] A fan-assisted convector contains a heat exchanger fed by hot water from the heating system. A thermostatic switch energises an electric fan which blows air over the heat exchanger to circulate it in a room. Its advantages are small relative size and even distribution of heat. Disadvantages are fan noise and the need for both a source of heat and a separate electrical supply. Underfloor [ edit ] Main article: Underfloor heating In underfloor heating, tubing is placed on the floor throughout the room and later covered with a concrete layer during construction. Also known as "radiant heat", underfloor heating uses a network of pipes, tubing or heating cables, buried in or attached beneath a floor to allow heat to rise into the room. Best results are achieved with conductive flooring materials such as tile. The large surface area of such room-sized radiators allows them to be kept just a few degrees above desired room temperature, minimizing convection . Underfloor heating is more expensive in new construction than less efficient systems. It also is generally difficult to retrofit into existing buildings. The Roman hypocaust employed a similar principle of operation. Skirting-board heating [ edit ] Skirting-board radiators are a form of heater which involves placing radiators inside a skirting board. Hot water is piped though the system, usually taken directly from the central heating system. [ 6 ] Indoor climate impact [ edit ] Radiators, as any system of heating air that does not add water, reduce relative humidity , possibly contributing to dry skin, reduced comfort, and shrinkage of wood flooring. However, a humidifier can mitigate this issue. [ 7 ] See also [ edit ] Heated towel rail Space heater Bleed screw Coolant Equivalence of direct radiation Heater core Hydronics Hydronic balancing Radiator cabinet Radiator reflector Radiator (engine cooling) Thermostatic radiator valve References [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Radiators . ^ Kay, Thornton (14 March 2016). "A peculiar kind of apparatus, which I call a radiator" . SalvoNEWS. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016 . Retrieved 22 December 2016 . ^ Family Sangalli / San Galli ^ Johnny Acton; Tania Adams; Matt Packer (2006). Origin of Everyday Things . Sterling Publishing Company, Inc. p. 205 . ISBN 1402743025 . Retrieved February 4, 2015 . radiator 1855 invented. ^ Siegenthaler, John (2023). Modern hydronic heating & cooling : for residential and light commercial buildings (3rd ed.). Cengage Learning. pp. 280– 282. ISBN 978-1-337-90491-9 . ^ "What are good conductors of heat?" . byjus.com . Retrieved 2024-06-18 . ^ "In depth knowledge" . Retrieved 26 August 2014 . ^ McDonell, Geoff. "Residential Humidity Control Strategies for Radiant Conditioned Homes" . Healthy heating . Archived from the original on 12 January 2023 . Retrieved 12 January 2023 . v t e Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning Fundamental concepts Air changes per hour (ACH) Bake-out Building envelope Convection Dilution Domestic energy consumption Enthalpy Fluid dynamics Gas compressor Heat pump and refrigeration cycle Heat transfer Humidity Infiltration Latent heat Noise control Outgassing Particulates Psychrometrics Sensible heat Stack effect Thermal comfort Thermal destratification Thermal mass Thermodynamics Vapour pressure of water Technology Absorption-compression heat pump Absorption refrigerator Air barrier Air conditioning Antifreeze Automobile air conditioning Autonomous building Building insulation materials Central heating Central solar heating Chilled beam Chilled water Constant air volume (CAV) Coolant Cross ventilation Dedicated outdoor air system (DOAS) Deep water source cooling Demand controlled ventilation (DCV) Displacement ventilation District cooling District heating Electric heating Energy recovery ventilation (ERV) Firestop Forced-air Forced-air gas Free cooling Heat recovery ventilation (HRV) Hybrid heat Hydronics Ice storage air conditioning Kitchen ventilation Mixed-mode ventilation Microgeneration Passive cooling Passive daytime radiative cooling Passive house Passive ventilation Radiant heating and cooling Radiant cooling Radiant heating Radon mitigation Refrigeration Renewable heat Room air distribution Solar air heat Solar combisystem Solar cooling Solar heating Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Underfloor air distribution Underfloor heating Vapor barrier Vapor-compression refrigeration (VCRS) Variable air volume (VAV) Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) Ventilation Water heat recycling Components Air conditioner inverter Air door Air filter Air handler Air ionizer Air-mixing plenum Air purifier Air source heat pump Attic fan Automatic balancing valve Back boiler Barrier pipe Blast damper Boiler Centrifugal fan Ceramic heater Chiller Condensate pump Condenser Condensing boiler Convection heater Compressor Cooling tower Damper Dehumidifier Duct Economizer Electrostatic precipitator Evaporative cooler Evaporator Exhaust hood Expansion tank Fan Fan coil unit Fan filter unit Fan heater Fire damper Fireplace Fireplace insert Freeze stat Flue Freon Fume hood Furnace Gas compressor Gas heater Gasoline heater Grease duct Grille Ground-coupled heat exchanger Ground source heat pump Heat exchanger Heat pipe Heat pump Heating film Heating system HEPA High efficiency glandless circulating pump High-pressure cut-off switch Humidifier Infrared heater Inverter compressor Kerosene heater Louver Mechanical room Oil heater Packaged terminal air conditioner Plenum space Pressurisation ductwork Process duct work Radiator Radiator reflector Recuperator Refrigerant Register Reversing valve Run-around coil Sail switch Scroll compressor Solar chimney Solar-assisted heat pump Space heater Smoke canopy Smoke damper Smoke exhaust ductwork Thermal expansion valve Thermal wheel Thermostatic radiator valve Trickle vent Trombe wall TurboSwing Turning vanes Ultra-low particulate air (ULPA) Whole-house fan Windcatcher Wood-burning stove Zone valve Measurement and control Air flow meter Aquastat BACnet Blower door Building automation Carbon dioxide sensor Clean air delivery rate (CADR) Control valve Gas detector Home energy monitor Humidistat HVAC control system Infrared thermometer Intelligent buildings LonWorks Minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) Normal temperature and pressure (NTP) OpenTherm Programmable communicating thermostat Programmable thermostat Psychrometrics Room temperature Smart thermostat Standard temperature and pressure (STP) Thermographic camera Thermostat Thermostatic radiator valve Professions, trades, and services Architectural acoustics Architectural engineering Architectural technologist Building services engineering Building information modeling (BIM) Deep energy retrofit Duct cleaning Duct leakage testing Environmental engineering Hydronic balancing Kitchen exhaust cleaning Mechanical engineering Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Mold growth, assessment, and remediation Refrigerant reclamation Testing, adjusting, balancing Industry organizations AHRI AMCA ASHRAE ASTM International BRE BSRIA CIBSE Institute of Refrigeration IIR LEED SMACNA UMC Health and safety Indoor air quality (IAQ) Passive smoking Sick building syndrome (SBS) Volatile organic compound (VOC) See also ASHRAE Handbook Building science Fireproofing Glossary of HVAC terms Warm Spaces World Refrigeration Day Template:Fire protection Template:Home automation Template:Solar energy v t e Plumbing Fundamental concepts Air gap (plumbing) Backflow Compatibility (chemical) Corrosion Drain (plumbing) Drinking water Fuel gas Friction loss Grade (slope) Greywater Heat trap Hydrostatic loop Leak Neutral axis Onsite sewage facility Pressure Sanitary sewer Sewer gas Sewage Sewerage Siphon Storm sewer Stormwater Surface tension Tap water Thermal expansion Thermal insulation Thermosiphon Trap (plumbing) Venturi effect Wastewater Water hammer Water supply network Water table Well Technology Brazing British Standard Pipe (BSP) Cast iron pipe Chemical drain cleaners Compression fitting Copper tubing Crimp (joining) Drain-waste-vent system Ductile iron pipe Flare fitting Garden Hose Thread (GHT) Gasket Hydronics Leak detection National pipe thread (NPT) Nominal Pipe Size (NPS) O-ring Oakum Pipe (fluid conveyance) Pipe dope Pipe support Plastic pipework Push-to-pull compression fittings Putty Sealant Sewage pumping Soldering Solvent welding Swaging Thread seal tape Threaded pipe Tube bending Water heat recycling Components Atmospheric vacuum breaker Automatic bleeding valve Automatic faucet Backflow prevention device Ball valve Bleed screw Booster pump Butterfly valve Check valve Chemigation valve Chopper pump Circulator pump Cistern Closet flange Concentric reducer Condensate pump Coupling (piping) Diaphragm valve Dielectric union Double check valve Eccentric reducer Expansion tank Faucet aerator Float switch Float valve Floor drain Flow limiter Flushing trough Flushometer Gate valve Globe valve Grease trap Grinder pump Hose coupling Manifold Needle valve Nipple (plumbing) Pinch valve Piping and plumbing fitting Plug (sanitation) Pressure regulator Pressure vacuum breaker Pressure-balanced valve Pump Radiator (heating) Reduced pressure zone device Reducer Relief valve Riser clamp Rooftop water tower Safety valve sewage pumping Street elbow Submersible pump Tap (valve) Thermostatic mixing valve Trench drain Vacuum breaker Vacuum ejector Valve Water tank Zone valve Plumbing fixtures Accessible bathtub Bathtub Bidet Dehumidifier Dishwasher Drinking fountain Electric water boiler Evaporative cooler Flush toilet Garbage disposal unit Hot water storage tank Humidifier Icemaker Instant hot water dispenser Laundry tub Shower water recycling shower Sink Storage water heater Sump pump Tankless water heating Urinal Washing machine Washlet Water dispenser Water filter Water heating Water softening Specialized tools Basin wrench Blowtorch Borescope Core drill Drain cleaner Driving cap Flare-nut wrench Pipecutter Pipe wrench Plumber's snake Plumber wrench Plunger Strap wrench Tap and die Measurement and control Control valve Flow sensor Pressure sensor Water detector Water metering Professions, trades, and services Hydronic balancing Hydrostatic testing Leak detection Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing Pipe marking Pipefitter Pipelayer Plumber Industry organizations and standards International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) NSF International Plumbing & Drainage Institute (PDI) Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC) World Plumbing Council (WPC) Health and safety Plumbing code Scalding Waterborne disease See also Fire sprinkler system Piping Template:HVAC Template:Public health Template:Sewerage Template:Human waste elimination Template:Wastewater Sources [ edit ] "Operating information on electric radiators" . Laura LNorth01. 2020. Authority control databases GND Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Radiator_(heating)&oldid=1327193498 " Categories : Residential heating appliances Heating Plumbing Heat exchangers 1855 introductions Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from February 2017 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2023 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2020 Commons category link is on Wikidata