https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quarter_panel

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Body panel of an automobile between a rear door and the trunk This article relies largely or entirely on a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources . Find sources: "Quarter panel" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( March 2025 ) (In red) 1990's Pontiac Grand Am sedan fender (top) and quarter panel (bottom) A quarter panel ( British English : rear wing ) is the body panel (exterior surface) of an automobile between a rear door (or only door on each side for two-door models) and the trunk (boot) and typically wraps around the wheel well. The similar front section between the door and the hood (bonnet) is called a fender (front wing) , and may sometimes also be referred to as a quarter panel. [ 1 ] Quarter panels are typically made of sheet metal , but are sometimes made of fiberglass , carbon fiber , or fiber-reinforced plastic . A quarter panel is typically a welded-on component of the unibody structure. Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded (or sometimes bonded) to the vehicle. Due to the high amount of specialized labor, a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering the damaged area to a relatively flat surface, and then applying a body filler to smooth out the damaged area to match the original surface. The panel is then usually painted and often clear coated . See also [ edit ] Injection molding List of auto parts Quarter glass References [ edit ] ^ "Quarter panel" . Merriam Webster Dictionary . Retrieved 5 June 2022 . v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal This article about an automotive part or component is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Quarter_panel&oldid=1297718238 " Categories : Automotive body parts Automotive part stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from March 2025 All articles needing additional references All stub articles