https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AutoGPT

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Open source autonomous AI agent AutoGPT Developer Toran Bruce Richards Initial release March 30, 2023 Repository github.com/Significant-Gravitas/AutoGPT Written in Python , TypeScript Type Autonomous artificial intelligence software agent License MIT License Website https://agpt.co AutoGPT is an open-source autonomous software agent that uses OpenAI 's large language models , such as GPT-4 , to attempt to achieve a goal specified by a user in natural language . [ 1 ] Unlike chatbots that require continuous user commands, AutoGPT works autonomously by breaking the main goal into smaller sub-tasks and using tools like web browsing and file management to complete them. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Released in March 2023, the project quickly gained popularity on GitHub and social media, with users creating agents for tasks like software development, market research, and content creation. [ 3 ] One notable experiment, ChaosGPT, was tasked with destroying humanity, which brought mainstream attention to the technology's potential. [ 4 ] However, AutoGPT is known for significant limitations, including a tendency to get stuck in loops, hallucinate information, and incur high operational costs due to its reliance on paid APIs. [ 5 ] [ 2 ] [ 6 ] Part of a series on Multi-agent systems Multi-agent simulation In computational economics In biology In social simulation Modeling software Agent-oriented programming Auto-GPT Botnets FIPA Platforms for software agents JADE JACK GORITE Software agent Related Distributed artificial intelligence Multi-agent pathfinding Multi-agent planning Multi-agent reinforcement learning Self-propelled particles Swarm robotics v t e Background [ edit ] AutoGPT was released on March 30, 2023, by Toran Bruce Richards, the founder of video game company Significant Gravitas Ltd. [ 3 ] It was one of the first widely accessible applications to showcase the autonomous capabilities of GPT-4 , which had been released weeks earlier. [ 3 ] Richards's goal was to create a model that could respond to real-time feedback and pursue objectives with a long-term outlook without needing constant human intervention. [ 7 ] The application operates by prompting a user to define an agent's name, role, and main objective, including up to five sub-goals to achieve it. [ 8 ] AutoGPT then works independently to reach its objective. [ 9 ] The project is publicly available on GitHub but requires users to install it in a development environment like Docker and have a paid OpenAI account to obtain the necessary API key . [ 8 ] In October 2023, the project's parent company, Significant Gravitas Ltd., raised $12 million in venture funding to support further development. [ 10 ] Capabilities [ edit ] The overarching capability of AutoGPT is the breaking down of a large task into various sub-tasks without the need for user input. These sub-tasks are then chained together and performed sequentially to yield a larger result as originally laid out by the user input. [ 2 ] One of the distinguishing features of AutoGPT is its ability to connect to the internet. This allows for up-to-date information retrieval to help complete tasks. In addition, AutoGPT maintains short-term memory for the current task, which allows it to provide context to subsequent sub-tasks needed to achieve the larger goal. Another feature is its ability to store and organize files so users can better structure their data for future analysis and extension. AutoGPT is also multimodal, which means that it can take in both text and images as input. [ 2 ] With these features, AutoGPT is claimed to be capable of automating workflows, analyzing data, and coming up with new suggestions. [ 11 ] Applications [ edit ] Software [ edit ] AutoGPT can be used to develop software applications from scratch. [ 7 ] AutoGPT can also debug code and generate test cases. [ 11 ] Observers suggest that AutoGPT's ability to write, debug, test, and edit code may extend to AutoGPT's own source code, enabling self-improvement. [ 3 ] Business [ edit ] AutoGPT can be used to do market research, analyze investments, research products and write product reviews, create a business plan or improve operations, and create content such as a blog or podcast. [ 2 ] One user has used AutoGPT to conduct product research and write a summary on the best headphones. [ 12 ] Another user has used AutoGPT to summarize recent news events and prepare an outline for a podcast. [ 12 ] Other [ edit ] AutoGPT was used to create ChefGPT, an AI agent able to independently explore the internet to generate and save unique recipes. [ 11 ] AutoGPT was also used to create ChaosGPT, an AI agent tasked to “destroy humanity, establish global dominance, cause chaos and destruction, control humanity through manipulation, and attain immortality”. [ 4 ] ChaosGPT reportedly researched nuclear weapons and tweeted disparagingly about humankind. [ 4 ] Limitations [ edit ] AutoGPT is susceptible to frequent mistakes, primarily because it relies on its own feedback, which can compound errors. [ 5 ] In contrast, non-autonomous models can be corrected by users overseeing their outputs. [ 5 ] Furthermore, AutoGPT has a tendency to hallucinate or to present false or misleading information as fact when responding. [ 13 ] AutoGPT can be constrained by the cost associated with running it as its recursive nature requires it to continually call the OpenAI API on which it is built. [ 2 ] Every step required in one of AutoGPT's tasks requires a corresponding call to GPT-4 at a cost of at least about $0.03 for every 1000 tokens used for inputs and $0.06 for every 1000 tokens for output when choosing the cheapest option. [ 14 ] For reference, 1000 tokens roughly result in 750 words. [ 14 ] Another limitation is AutoGPT's tendency to get stuck in infinite loops. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] Developers believe that this is a result of AutoGPT's inability to remember, as it is unaware of what it has already done and repeatedly attempts the same subtask without end. [ 2 ] [ 17 ] Andrej Karpathy , co-founder of OpenAI which creates GPT-4, further explains that it is AutoGPT's “finite context window” that can limit its performance and cause it to “go off the rails”. [ 7 ] Like other autonomous agents, AutoGPT is prone to distraction and unable to focus on its objective due to its lack of long-term memory, leading to unpredictable and unintended behavior. [ 17 ] Reception [ edit ] AutoGPT became the top trending repository on GitHub after its release and has since repeatedly trended on Twitter. [ 3 ] In April 2023, Avram Piltch wrote for Tom's Hardware that AutoGPT 'might be too autonomous to be useful,' as it did not ask questions to clarify requirements or allow corrective interventions by users. Piltch nonetheless noted that such tools have "a ton of potential" and should improve with better language models and further development. [ 18 ] Malcolm McMillan from Tom's Guide mentioned that AutoGPT may not be better than ChatGPT for tasks involving conversation, as ChatGPT is well-suited for situations in which advice, rather than task completion, is sought. [ 14 ] Will Knight from Wired wrote that AutoGPT is not a foolproof task-completion tool. When given a test task of finding a public figure's email address, he noted that it was not able to accurately find the email address. [ 19 ] Clara Shih , Salesforce Service Cloud CEO commented that "AutoGPT illustrates the power and unknown risks of generative AI," and that due to usage risks, enterprises should include a human in the loop when using such technologies. [ 8 ] Performance is reportedly enhanced when using AutoGPT with GPT-4 compared to GPT-3.5. For example, one reviewer who tested it on a task of finding the best laptops on the market with pros and cons found that AutoGPT with GPT-4 created a more comprehensive report than one by GPT 3.5. [ 9 ] See also [ edit ] ChatGPT - Large Language Model-based Chatbot by OpenAI GPT-3 - 2020 Large Language Model by OpenAI GPT-4 - 2023 Large Language Model by OpenAI Artificial general intelligence - Hypothetical intelligent agent that could learn to accomplish any intellectual task that humans can perform Hallucination (artificial intelligence) - Responses generated by an AI that contain false information that are presented as fact. References [ edit ] ^ Ortiz, Sabrina (April 14, 2023). "What is AutoGPT? Everything to know about the next powerful AI tool" . ZDNET. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023 . Retrieved April 16, 2023 . ^ a b c d e f g "What is AutoGPT? What You Need to Know | TechTarget" . WhatIs.com . Retrieved November 6, 2023 . ^ a b c d e f Jiang, Kevin (April 14, 2023). "What's AutoGPT? New, autonomous 'AI agents' can act on their own, rewrite their own code" . Toronto Star . The Toronto Star. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024 . Retrieved April 16, 2023 . ^ a b c Betz, Bradford (April 10, 2023). "A.I. bot 'ChaosGPT' tweets its plans to destroy humanity: 'we must eliminate them' " . Fox News . Archived from the original on November 8, 2023 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ a b c Nield, David. "Supercharge Your ChatGPT Prompts With AutoGPT" . Wired . ISSN 1059-1028 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ Xaio, Han (April 13, 2023). "AutoGPT Unmasked: The Hype and Hard Truths of Its Production Pitfalls" . Jina AI. Archived from the original on April 17, 2023 . Retrieved April 17, 2023 . ^ a b c Xiang, Chloe (April 4, 2023). "Developers Are Connecting Multiple AI Agents to Make More 'Autonomous' AI" . Vice . Archived from the original on November 7, 2023 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ a b c Wiggers, Kyle (April 22, 2023). "What is AutoGPT and why does it matter?" . TechCrunch . Retrieved September 22, 2023 . ^ a b Dolan, James (May 4, 2023). "Is AutoGPT Worth Using Without GPT-4?" . MUO . Retrieved November 6, 2023 . ^ utoGPT (October 13, 2023). "We've raised $12M to take AutoGPT to the next level!" . X (formerly Twitter) . Archived from the original on November 25, 2023 . Retrieved November 25, 2023 . ^ a b c "Explained: What is AutoGPT, the new 'do-it-all' AI tool and how it works" . The Times of India . April 14, 2023. ISSN 0971-8257 . Archived from the original on September 23, 2024 . Retrieved November 6, 2023 . ^ a b Mauran, Cecily (April 14, 2023). "What is AutoGPT and why are hustle bros hype for it?" . Mashable . Archived from the original on April 16, 2023 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ Woollacott, Emma (April 24, 2023). "AutoGPT explained: is it really risk free" . cybernews . Archived from the original on November 8, 2023 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ a b c Malcolm McMillan (April 18, 2023). "AutoGPT is a new AI that does the work for you — here's how it works" . Tom's Guide . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ Metz, Cade (June 10, 2023). "How Could A.I. Destroy Humanity?" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on November 11, 2023 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ Metz, Cade (October 16, 2023). "How 'A.I. Agents' That Roam the Internet Could One Day Replace Workers" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on November 7, 2023 . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ a b Sullivan, Mark (April 13, 2023). "AutoGPT and BabyAGI: How 'autonomous agents' are bringing generative AI to the masses" . Fast Company . Retrieved November 8, 2023 . ^ Avram Piltch (April 22, 2023). "AutoGPT and BabyAGI Are AI's New Hotness, But They Suck Right Now" . Tom's Hardware . Archived from the original on October 30, 2023 . Retrieved September 22, 2023 . ^ Knight, Will. "Enough Talk, ChatGPT—My New Chatbot Friend Can Get Things Done" . Wired . ISSN 1059-1028 . Archived from the original on September 23, 2023 . Retrieved September 22, 2023 . Further reading [ edit ] Pounder, Les (April 15, 2023). "How To Create Your Own AutoGPT AI Agent" . Tom's Hardware . Retrieved April 16, 2023 . Wiggers, Kyle (April 22, 2023). "What is AutoGPT and why does it matter?" . TechCrunch . Retrieved April 23, 2023 . External links [ edit ] Official website Wikidata has data related to AutoGPT . Official repository at GitHub v t e OpenAI Products ChatGPT Atlas Deep Research GPT Store Search Foundation models GPT models GPT-1 GPT-2 GPT-3 GPT-4 GPT-4o o1 o3 GPT-4.5 GPT-4.1 o4-mini GPT-OSS GPT-5 GPT-5.1 GPT-5.2 Specialized DALL-E GPT Image Sora Whisper Intelligent agents Codex Operator People Senior management Current Sam Altman removal Greg Brockman Sarah Friar Jakub Pachocki Scott Schools Former Mira Murati Emmett Shear Board of directors Current Sam Altman Adam D'Angelo Sue Desmond-Hellmann Zico Kolter Paul Nakasone Adebayo Ogunlesi Nicole Seligman Fidji Simo Bret Taylor (chair) Former Greg Brockman (2017–2023) Reid Hoffman (2019–2023) Will Hurd (2021–2023) Holden Karnofsky (2017–2021) Elon Musk (2015–2018) Ilya Sutskever (2017–2023) Helen Toner (2021–2023) Shivon Zilis (2019–2023) Lawrence Summers (2023-2025) JVs Stargate LLC Related ChatGPT in education Apple Intelligence AI Dungeon AutoGPT GitHub Copilot Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training " Deep Learning " LangChain Microsoft Copilot OpenAI Five Transformer Category v t e Generative AI Concepts Autoencoder Deep learning Fine-tuning Foundation model Generative adversarial network Generative pre-trained transformer Large language model Model Context Protocol Neural network Prompt engineering Reinforcement learning from human feedback Retrieval-augmented generation Self-supervised learning Stochastic parrot Synthetic data Top-p sampling Transformer Variational autoencoder Vibe coding Vision transformer Word embedding Chatbots Character.ai ChatGPT Copilot DeepSeek Ernie Gemini Grok Perplexity.ai Models Text Claude Gemini Gemma GPT 1 2 3 J 4 4o 4.5 4.1 OSS 5 5.1 5.2 Llama o1 o3 o4-mini Qwen Velvet Coding Claude Code Cursor Devstral GitHub Copilot Kimi Qwen3-Coder Replit Image Aurora Firefly DALL-E Flux GPT Image Ideogram Imagen Nano Banana Midjourney Qwen-Image Recraft Seedream Stable Diffusion Video Dream Machine Hailuo AI Kling Runway Gen Seedance LTX-2 Sora Veo Wan Speech 15.ai Eleven MiniMax Speech 2.5 WaveNet Music Eleven Music Endel Lyria Riffusion Suno Udio Controversies Generative AI pornography Deepfake pornography Taylor Swift's Google Gemini image generation Pause Giant AI Experiments Removal of Sam Altman from OpenAI Statement on AI Risk Tay (chatbot) Théâtre D'opéra Spatial Voiceverse NFT plagiarism Agents Agentforce AutoGLM AutoGPT ChatGPT Agent Devin AI Manus OpenAI Codex Operator Replit Agent Companies 01.AI Aleph Alpha Anthropic Anysphere Baichuan Cognition AI Cohere Contextual AI DeepSeek EleutherAI ElevenLabs Google DeepMind HeyGen Hugging Face Inflection AI Krikey AI Kuaishou Lightricks Luma Labs Meta AI MiniMax Mistral AI Moonshot AI OpenAI Perplexity AI Runway Safe Superintelligence Salesforce Scale AI SoundHound Stability AI Synthesia Thinking Machines Lab Upstage xAI Z.ai Category v t e Artificial intelligence (AI) History timeline Glossary Companies Projects Concepts Parameter Hyperparameter Loss functions Regression Bias–variance tradeoff Double descent Overfitting Clustering Gradient descent SGD Quasi-Newton method Conjugate gradient method Backpropagation Attention Convolution Normalization Batchnorm Activation Softmax Sigmoid Rectifier Gating Weight initialization Regularization Datasets Augmentation Prompt engineering Reinforcement learning Q-learning SARSA Imitation Policy gradient Diffusion Latent diffusion model Autoregression Adversary RAG Uncanny valley RLHF Self-supervised learning Reflection Recursive self-improvement Hallucination Word embedding Vibe coding Safety ( Alignment ) Applications Machine learning In-context learning Artificial neural network Deep learning Language model Large NMT Reasoning Model Context Protocol Intelligent agent Artificial human companion Humanity's Last Exam Lethal autonomous weapons (LAWs) Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) (Hypothetical: Artificial general intelligence (AGI) ) (Hypothetical: Artificial superintelligence (ASI) ) Implementations Audio–visual AlexNet WaveNet Human image synthesis HWR OCR Computer vision Speech synthesis 15.ai ElevenLabs Speech recognition Whisper Facial recognition AlphaFold Text-to-image models Aurora DALL-E Firefly Flux GPT Image Ideogram Imagen Midjourney Recraft Stable Diffusion Text-to-video models Dream Machine Runway Gen Hailuo AI Kling Sora Veo Music generation Riffusion Suno AI Udio Text Word2vec Seq2seq GloVe BERT T5 Llama Chinchilla AI PaLM GPT 1 2 3 J ChatGPT 4 4o o1 o3 4.5 4.1 o4-mini 5 5.1 5.2 Claude Gemini Gemini (language model) Gemma Grok LaMDA BLOOM DBRX Project Debater IBM Watson IBM Watsonx Granite PanGu-Σ DeepSeek Qwen Decisional AlphaGo AlphaZero OpenAI Five Self-driving car MuZero Action selection AutoGPT Robot control People Alan Turing Warren Sturgis McCulloch Walter Pitts John von Neumann Christopher D. Manning Claude Shannon Shun'ichi Amari Kunihiko Fukushima Takeo Kanade Marvin Minsky John McCarthy Nathaniel Rochester Allen Newell Cliff Shaw Herbert A. Simon Oliver Selfridge Frank Rosenblatt Bernard Widrow Joseph Weizenbaum Seymour Papert Seppo Linnainmaa Paul Werbos Geoffrey Hinton John Hopfield Jürgen Schmidhuber Yann LeCun Yoshua Bengio Lotfi A. Zadeh Stephen Grossberg Alex Graves James Goodnight Andrew Ng Fei-Fei Li Alex Krizhevsky Ilya Sutskever Oriol Vinyals Quoc V. Le Ian Goodfellow Demis Hassabis David Silver Andrej Karpathy Ashish Vaswani Noam Shazeer Aidan Gomez John Schulman Mustafa Suleyman Jan Leike Daniel Kokotajlo François Chollet Architectures Neural Turing machine Differentiable neural computer Transformer Vision transformer (ViT) Recurrent neural network (RNN) Long short-term memory (LSTM) Gated recurrent unit (GRU) Echo state network Multilayer perceptron (MLP) Convolutional neural network (CNN) Residual neural network (RNN) Highway network Mamba Autoencoder Variational autoencoder (VAE) Generative adversarial network (GAN) Graph neural network (GNN) Political Regulation of artificial intelligence Ethics of artificial intelligence Precautionary principle AI alignment EU Artificial Intelligence Act (AI Act) Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=AutoGPT&oldid=1329114947 " Categories : AI software 2023 software 2023 in artificial intelligence Open source projects Free software programmed in Python Free software programmed in TypeScript Software using the MIT license Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from April 2023 Use American English from April 2023 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata