https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_cooling

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Method of dissipating heat directly into the atmosphere Not to be confused with air conditioning . A Cooler Master computer heat sink has many heat pipes , styled to look like V8 engine . CPU cooler Thermalright Le Grand Macho RT installed into the computer case. Air cooling is a method of dissipating heat . It works by expanding the surface area or increasing the flow of air over the object to be cooled, or both. An example of the former is to add cooling fins to the surface of the object, either by making them integral or by attaching them tightly to the object's surface (to ensure efficient heat transfer). In the case of the latter, it is done by using a fan blowing air into or onto the object one wants to cool. The addition of fins to a heat sink increases its total surface area, resulting in greater cooling effectiveness. There are two types of cooling pads that can be used for air cooling: one is the honeycomb design and another one is excelsior . [ citation needed ] In all cases, the air has to be cooler than the object or surface from which it is expected to remove heat. This is due to the second law of thermodynamics , which states that heat will only move spontaneously from a hot reservoir (the heat sink) to a cold reservoir (the air). Derating at high altitude [ edit ] When operating in an environment with lower air pressure like high altitude or airplane cabins, the cooling capacity has to be derated compared to that of sea level. A rule-of-thumb formula to note: 1 – (h/17500) = derating factor. Where h is the height over sea level in meters. And the result is the factor that should be multiplied with the cooling capacity in [W] to get the cooling capacity at the specified height over sea level. [ 1 ] See also [ edit ] Computer cooling Computer fan Deep water air cooling Evaporative cooling Water cooling Oil cooling Heat pipe cooling Peltier cooling Heater core References [ edit ] ^ ericsson.net – Forced air cooling of DC/DC power modules at high altitude, Design Note 025 Archived 2011-08-11 at the Wayback Machine table "Cooling efficiency" Further reading [ edit ] Biermann, A.E. (1941). "The design of fins for air-cooled cylinders" (PDF) . Report Nº 726 . NACA . P V Lamarque, "The design of cooling fins for Motorcycle Engines", Report of the Automobile Research Committee, Institution of Automobile Engineers Magazine, March 1943 issue, and also in "The Institution of Automobile Engineers Proceedings, Session 1942-1943, pp 99-134 and 309-312. Julius Mackerle, "Air-Cooled Motor Engines". Charles Griffin & Company Ltd., London 1972 Anish Gokhale et al.: "Optimization of Engine Cooling through Conjugate Heat Transfer Simulation and Analysis of Fins"; SAE Paper 2012-32-0054 v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Air_cooling&oldid=1322972003 " Categories : Engine cooling systems Cooling technology Computer hardware cooling Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2020