https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101800/wiring-connector-chip-theft-at-left-kick-plate-starting-issue-1995-civic-lx

Wiring connector/ chip theft at left kick plate. Starting issue. 1995 Civic Lx Ask Question Asked 8 days ago Modified 8 days ago Viewed 22 times 0 Driver's side wiring harness connector at kick plate or under dash area. Chip theft. What can be done? Car wants to start but can't fully do it. Won't idle. 1995 Honda Civic LX 1.5L engine. AT w/ SRS. honda starting civic connector wiring-harness Share Improve this question Follow edited Dec 21 at 21:00 Pᴀᴜʟsᴛᴇʀ2 ♦ 168k 32 32 gold badges 260 260 silver badges 515 515 bronze badges asked Dec 21 at 17:07 Monique Elwell 1 1 1 bronze badge Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 1 The Honda Civic had no anti-theft chip in the key or in the car before the 1996 model year. If you're just assuming (or if you were told) that the reason the car won't start and run is "the chip was stolen", then that is not correct and you should concentrate on learning why the car won't start and run. You need to read the engine's fault codes. Unfortunately, your car does not have an OBD2 port, so reading codes is a little complicated. You can follow this procedure from hondapartsonline.net to read all the engine codes, then come back and start a new question without mentioning chip theft, but giving the symptoms and the code numbers and descriptions. Someone here will help you. When you return with your new question, please write complete sentences and explain everything in detail. PROCEDURE How do you get the ECU to relay the codes? Simply by forming a bridge with a paper clip or stripped piece of wire between the two ports on your Honda’s diagnostic plug. Follow this simple guide to learn what your Honda’s ECU is telling you. Step 1: Locate Your Honda’s Diagnostic Plug Under the glove compartment, behind the passenger’s side kick panel, you’ll find either a blue or gray colored connector/plug that is not connected to anything. In some cases, depending on your particular model, the plug may be found on the driver’s side or behind the radio. Once located, carefully remove the plug from the rubber mount and plastic housing that’s bundling the wiring harnesses together. Step 2: Create a Bridge Using either a paper clip, or a piece of wire with the tips stripped of insulation, arc the clip or wire and place an end into the holes of the clip on each side. Ensure the wire or clip is making contact with the actual wires by pressing the ends down into the holes of the plug. Step 3: Decipher the Code With the bridge in place, turn your ignition forward to clicks to the “run” setting. The check engine light will begin to blink in a sequence of long and short blinks. A short blink entails “1” and a long blink entails “10.” Depending on the sequence given, you will add them together (i.e. if the check engine light gives one long blink and two short blinks, you will add 10,1,and 1 together, making 12.). Make sure to watch the check engine like carefully to ensure the proper count. Step 4: Once you’ve learned the sequence, find it below to learn what’s wrong with your Honda. Code 0 & 11: Electronic Control Module (ECM) Code 1: Oxygen sensor A Code 2: Oxygen content B Code 3 & 5: Manifold Absolute Pressure (MAP) Code 4: Crank position sensor (CKP) Code 6: Engine coolant temperature (ECT) Code 7: Throttle position sensor (TPS) Code 8: Top dead center sensor (TDC) Code 9: No. 1 cylinder position sensor (CYP) Code 10: Intake air temperature sensor (IAT) Code 12: Exhaust gas recirculation system (EGR) Code 13: Barometric pressure sensor (BARO) Code 14: Idle air control valve or bad ECM (IAC) Code 15: Ignition output signal Code 16: Fuel injector Code 17: Vehicle speed sensor (VSS) Code 19: A/T lock-up control solenoid Code 20: Electric load detector Code 21: V-TEC control solenoid Code 22: V-TEC pressure solenoid Code 23: Knock sensor (KS) Code 30: A/T FI signal A Code 31: A/T FI signal B Code 41: Heated oxygen sensor heater Code 43: Fuel supply system Code 45: Fuel supply metering Code 48: Primary heated oxygen sensor Code 54: Crankshaft speed fluctuation sensor (CKF) Code 61: Front heated oxygen sensor Code 63: Rear heated oxygen sensor Code 65: Rear heated oxygen sensor heater Code 67: Catalytic converter system Code 70: Automatic transaxle Code 71: Misfire detected cylinder 1 Code 72: Misfire detected cylinder 2 Code 73: Misfire detected cylinder 3 Code 74: Misfire detected cylinder 4 Code 75: Misfire detected cylinder 5 Code 76: Misfire detected cylinder 6 Code 80: Exhaust recirculation system Code 86: Engine coolant temperature circuit (ECT) Code 91: Fuel tank pressure sensor low input Code 92: Evaporative emission control system Share Improve this answer Follow edited Dec 21 at 19:32 answered Dec 21 at 19:25 MTA 12.4k 1 1 gold badge 15 15 silver badges 42 42 bronze badges Add a comment | You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions honda starting civic connector wiring-harness See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 11 What could cause my Honda Civic to not start? And how can I address the issue? 5 Slower Engine Start When "Cold" 6 8th Gen Honda - No Start, No Crank (down the rabbit hole) 3 2006 Solstice - car won't turn over following engine replacement 4 Suzuki Marauder gz125 fried wiring on ignition/starter circuit 4 Honda Civic won't start after sitting in the sun, but fine if parked in the shade 3 How can I diagnose my headlight wiring issue? 2003 Honda civic si 1 Honda CRV 2000 Horrible Throttle Response Hot Network Questions How to set STM32C011 clock to maximum? In what way is Jesus' burden light? Does it make sense to average standard errors like this? Is the idea of a supernatural explanation incoherent? Why does \textstyle not work in \smashoperator? What are some very original theories in the history of physics that were ultimately proven wrong? What does the command 'recoverydiagnose' do? How good am I doing at Wordle? How to make a line above across the entire width of ItemNumbered? Greek transliteration of the Latin word, parma FunctionDomain of Hold Piecewise function Moving from C, how to implement a doubly linked list in C++ using C++ features? Fraud/Credit that does NOT require a credit check How can I convert object locations currently in UTMs to a rectangular (square) coordinate system with lower left corner coordinates as 0 m , 0 m? Use some characters from the text font instead of the corresponding ones from mtpro2 What is the benefit of letting an in-progress espagnole sauce rest overnight? What is the earliest known story using a literary MacGuffin as a primary device to visit worlds? Can you please point to any references to bija mantras in any major shastras? Basic Graph theory Monovariant How can I make sudo apt install warn me that I'm about to pull from Debian Unstable? Why would players circle around the ball in American Football (high school level)? Is it dangerous if there is a mains fault on a potable water pipe? "Volcanoes" in Asgat, Mongolia What can we learn from King Solomon if he possibly missed the mark? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.