https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glove_compartment

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Compartment built into the dashboard of an automobile For the sealed container for handling hazardous materials, see Glovebox . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Glove compartment" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( February 2010 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Glove compartment of a Ford Fusion with an owner's manual visible Open glove compartment of a right-hand drive car assembled in Australia by Australian Motor Industries (AMI) A glove compartment or glove box is a compartment built into the dashboard of an automobile , located over the front-seat passenger's footwell, and often used for miscellaneous storage. The name derives from the original purpose of the compartment, to store driving gloves . They were sometimes in a box on the floorboard near the driver, hence the phrase "glove box". In most vehicles, the glove compartment closes with a latch, with the option of being locked with a key (often desirable when using valet service, when parking with the convertible top down, or when the compartment contains a mechanism to open the trunk ). History [ edit ] An early innovation was the addition of a storage compartment on the front or dashboard of the 1900 Packard . [ 1 ] Driving gloves were considered necessary equipment in early cars, many of which were mostly open to the weather, to prevent the cooling effect of fast-moving air from numbing drivers' hands. Gloves are still considered necessary equipment on motorcycles for the same reason, although, unlike cars, most motorcycles do not have glove boxes. [ citation needed ] According to the BBC Four program Penelope Keith and the Fast Lady (Aaron Syer) , Dorothy Levitt first coined the phrase glove compartment as she advised motorists to carry a number of pairs of gloves to deal with many eventualities. [ 2 ] In some vehicles, the inside of the compartment's door may have an indented area for cups or beverage containers when open. These were for use while at a drive-in while the car was stationary, not in the modern applications of cup holders . Some glove compartments have sections for holding a pen or pencil. There were storage compartments on the backs of the seats to hold a woman's bag or rain apparel in the 1955 and 1956 Dodge La Femme . [ 3 ] The 1957 Cadillac Eldorado Brougham featured a cocktail set with magnetized cups in its dashboard compartment. [ 4 ] In some newer cars, the glove compartment may be temperature-controlled, so that it can be used as a cooler for beverages such as on the Dodge Caliber . [ 5 ] Some cars now have multiple compartments. In the past, glove compartments typically contained an internal light. This light automatically turned on when the box was opened, helping to search its contents. From the 2000s, many manufacturers have not provided this light, to cut costs, even in luxury vehicles. [ 6 ] See also [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Glove compartments . Center console (automobile) List of auto parts References [ edit ] ^ Miller, Aaron (January 22, 2016). "The Weirdly Fascinating History of the Glove Compartment" . Thrillist . Retrieved February 10, 2022 . ^ Eschner, Kat. "Advice for Drivers From Dorothy Levitt, the Pre-War Racing Record Breaker You've Never Heard Of" . Smithsonian . Retrieved 2019-04-25 . ^ Hunting, Benjamin (February 10, 2020). "How the 1955 Dodge La Femme missed the mark on designing cars for women" . Hagerty Media . Retrieved February 10, 2022 . ^ Prentice, John (July 11, 2019). "This 1957 Cadillac has a bar in the glove box" . Seattle Refined . Retrieved February 10, 2022 . ^ Barry, Keith (May 5, 2009). "Cool Feature. Lame Car" . Wired . Retrieved February 10, 2022 . ^ "Glove Box Light or Lack of One" . GM Inside News . 2008-05-19 . Retrieved 2012-09-25 . v t e Car interior Part of a series of articles on cars Instruments Automotive navigation system Automotive night vision Backup camera Blind spot monitor Boost gauge Buzzer Carputer Check engine light Electronic instrument cluster Fuel gauge Head-up display Odometer Parking sensor Radar detector Speedometer Tachometer Telematics Tell-tale Trip computer Controls Bowden cable Brake Clutch Cruise control Electronic throttle control Gear stick Manettino dial Parking brake Power steering Steering wheel Anti-theft Alarm Automatic vehicle location Immobiliser Power door locks Remote keyless system Smart key VIN etching Safety Seating Airbag Armrest Bench seat Bucket seat Child safety lock Rearview mirror Rumble seat Seat belt Other elements Boot liner Center console Dashboard Glove compartment Molded carpet Sun visor Vehicle mat Convenience Audio Automobile auxiliary power outlet Cup holder Car phone Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Glove_compartment&oldid=1310048206 " Categories : Automotive body parts Containers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from February 2010 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2016 Commons link is locally defined