https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concentration_cell

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Galvanic cell This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Concentration cell" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) This article may be too technical for most readers to understand . Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts , without removing the technical details. ( September 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) In battery technology, a concentration cell is a limited form of a galvanic cell that has two equivalent half-cells of the same composition differing only in concentrations . One can calculate the potential developed by such a cell using the Nernst equation . [ 1 ] A concentration cell produces a small voltage as it attempts to reach chemical equilibrium , which occurs when the concentration of reactant in both half-cells are equal.  Because an order of magnitude concentration difference produces less than 60 millivolts at room temperature, concentration cells are not typically used for energy storage . A concentration cell generates electricity from the reduction in the thermodynamic free energy of the electrochemical system as the difference in the chemical concentrations in the two half-cells is reduced. The same reaction occurs in the half-cells but in opposite directions, increasing the lower and decreasing the higher concentration. The energy is generated from thermal energy that the cell absorbs as heat, as the electricity flows. This generation of electricity from ambient thermal energy , without a temperature gradient , is possible because the convergence of the chemical concentrations in the two half-cells increases entropy, and this increase more than compensates for the entropy decrease when heat is converted into electrical energy. Concentration cell methods of chemical analysis compare a solution of known concentration with an unknown, determining the concentration of the unknown via the Nernst Equation or comparison tables against a group of standards. The standard reduction and oxidation potentials for a concentration cell is 0V at standard conditions (1M solutions, 298K, 1 atm). This is because a concentration cell is designed to have identical electrodes immersed in solutions with different concentrations of the same ions, and at standard conditions, the electrode potentials of the half-cells are the same. Therefore, there is no net potential difference. Concentration cell corrosion occurs when two or more areas of a metal surface are in contact with different concentrations of the same solution. There are two general types of concentration cells. Concentration cells can be electrode concentration cells or electrolyte concentration cells. Electrolyte Concentration cell - In this particular electrochemical cell, the electrodes within both half-cells consist of identical substances, while the electrolyte comprises a solution of the same substance, albeit with varying concentrations. Electrode Concentration cell - In this particular electrochemical cell, two electrodes composed of the same substance but with differing concentrations are immersed in a common solution. Metal ion concentration cells [ edit ] In the presence of water , a high concentration of metal ions will exist under the faying surfaces and a low concentration of metal ions will exist adjacent to the crevice created by the faying surfaces. An electrical potential will exist between the two points. The area of the metal in contact with the lower concentration of metal ions will be cathodic and will be protected, and the area of metal in contact with the higher metal ion concentration will be anodic and corroded. [ citation needed ] Oxygen concentration cells [ edit ] Water in contact with the metal surface will normally contain dissolved oxygen . An oxygen cell can develop at any point where the oxygen in the air is not allowed to diffuse uniformly into the solution, thereby creating a difference in oxygen concentration between two points. Corrosion will occur at the area of low-oxygen concentration, which are anodic. Active-passive cells [ edit ] If a metal is protected against corrosion by a tightly adhering passive film (usually an oxide ) and salt deposits on the surface in the presence of water, the active metal beneath the film will be exposed to corrosive attack in areas where the passive film is broken. An electrical potential will develop between the large area of the passive film (cathode) and the small area of the exposed active metal (anode). Rapid pitting of the active metal will result. See also [ edit ] Activity coefficient Electrochemical potential Ion transport number ITIES Liquid junction potential Membrane potential Thermogalvanic cell Osmotic power Oxygen sensor § Zirconia sensor - an application of a concentration cell. References [ edit ] ^ Almost any textbook on physical chemistry , e.g. by I. N. Levine or P. W. Atkins, and also many general chemistry texts. This article incorporates public domain material from Concentration Cell Corrosion . National Aeronautics and Space Administration . v t e Electrochemical cells Types Galvanic cell Concentration cell Electric battery Flow battery Trough battery Fuel cell Thermogalvanic cell Voltaic pile Primary cell (non-rechargeable) Alkaline Aluminium–air Bunsen Chromic acid Clark Daniell Dry Edison–Lalande Grove Leclanché Lithium metal Lithium organic Lithium–air Mercury Metal–air electrochemical Nickel oxyhydroxide Silicon–air Silver oxide Weston Zamboni Zinc–air Zinc–carbon Secondary cell (rechargeable) Automotive Lead–acid gel–VRLA Lithium–air Lithium ion Dual carbon Lithium–iron–phosphate Lithium–polymer Lithium–sulfur Lithium–titanate Metal–air Molten salt Nanopore Nanowire Nickel–cadmium Nickel–hydrogen Nickel–iron Nickel–lithium Nickel–metal hydride Nickel–zinc Polysulfide–bromide Potassium ion Rechargeable alkaline Silver–cadmium Silver–zinc Sodium ion Sodium–sulfur Solid state Vanadium redox Zinc–bromine Zinc–cerium Other cell Atomic battery Radioisotope thermoelectric generator Fuel cell Solar cell Cell parts Anode Binder Catalyst Cathode Electrode Electrolyte Half-cell Ions Salt bridge Semipermeable membrane Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Concentration_cell&oldid=1327242471 " Category : Battery types Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from September 2018 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles that are too technical from September 2012 All articles that are too technical Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2011 Wikipedia articles incorporating text from NASA