https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nacelle

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Part of an aircraft, encasing the engines This article is about aircraft nacelles. For wind turbine nacelles, see Nacelle (wind turbine) . For other uses, see Nacelle (disambiguation) . Engines in nacelles on a Boeing 707 A nacelle ( / n ə ˈ s ɛ l / nə- SEL ) is a streamlined container for aircraft parts such as engines , fuel or equipment. [ 1 ] When attached entirely outside the airframe, it is sometimes called a pod, in which case it is attached with a pylon or strut and the engine is known as a podded engine . [ 2 ] In some cases—for instance in the typical " Farman " type "pusher" aircraft , or the World War II -era P-38 Lightning or SAAB J21 —an aircraft cockpit may also be housed in a nacelle, rather than in a conventional fuselage . Etymology [ edit ] Like many aviation terms, the word comes from French , in this case from a word for a small boat. [ 3 ] Development [ edit ] The development of the Arado Ar 234 , merging the four nacelles into two The Arado Ar 234 was one of the first operational jet aircraft with engines mounted in nacelles. During its development, the four engines had four distinct nacelles. They once had their own landing gear wheel, but they were later combined to two nacelles with two engines each. A visible feature on airliner nacelles is the chevron nozzle, a fan air/exhaust gas mixer for jet noise reduction. [ 4 ] Applications [ edit ] Twin-engine nacelle on a B-52 Stratofortress Multi-engined aircraft [ edit ] Airliners install their engines in nacelles under the wing or on the sides of the rear fuselage. [ 5 ] Engines may be mounted in individual nacelles, or in the case of larger aircraft such as the Boeing B-52 Stratofortress (pictured right) may have two engines mounted in a single nacelle. [ citation needed ] Other uses [ edit ] The generator and gearbox "shell" – with rotator shaft – on a horizontal-axis wind turbine (HAWT). [ 6 ] Edward Turner used the term to describe his styling device introduced in 1949 to tidy the area around the headlamp and instrument panel of his Triumph Speed Twin , Thunderbird and Tiger 100 motorcycles. This styling device was much copied within the British industry thereafter, although Czech motorcycle manufacturer Česká Zbrojovka Strakonice was using it beforehand. Indeed, the Royal Enfield Bullet still retains its version, the 'casquette', on its current models. The last Triumphs to sport nacelles were the 1966 models of the 6T Triumph Thunderbird 650, 5TA Triumph Speed Twin 500, and 3TA Triumph Twenty One 350. [ 7 ] [ citation needed ] Harley-Davidson refers to the streamlined headlamp and fork triple tree covering on the Milwaukee-Eight version of the Harley-Davidson Fat Boy as the "Headlamp Nacelle." [ 8 ] The replacement kit also refers to it as the "Fat Boy Nacelle Kit." A forward projection of a catamaran's bridgedeck designed to soften the impact of seas or make more space inside the cabin. [ 9 ] In the Star Trek franchise it is also used as a term for the housing containing coils that generate the warp field. This is separate to the engine that powers them. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Design considerations [ edit ] The primary design issue with aircraft-mounted nacelles is streamlining to minimise drag so nacelles are mounted on slender pylons. This can cause issues with directing the needed conduits mounted within the nacelle to connect to the aircraft through such a narrow space. This is especially concerning with nacelles containing engines, as the fuel lines and control for multiple engine functions must all go through the pylons. [ 5 ] It is often necessary for nacelles to be asymmetrical, but aircraft designers try to keep asymmetrical elements to a minimum to reduce operator maintenance costs associated with having two sets of parts for either side of the aircraft. [ 5 ] References [ edit ] ^ The Cambridge Aerospace Dictionary, Bill Gunston, ISBN 0 511 33833 3 ^ Wragg, David W. (1973). A Dictionary of Aviation (first ed.). Osprey. p. 199. ISBN 9780850451634 . ^ "Online Etymology Dictionary" . Retrieved 5 December 2013 . ^ 'JET NOISE REDUCTION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AT GE AIRCRAFT ENGINES' http://icas.org/icas_archive/ICAS2002/PAPERS/842.PDF ^ a b c Ilan Kroo, Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics (April 13, 1999). "Nacelle Design and Sizing" . Aircraft Aerodynamics and Design Group at Stanford University. Archived from the original on March 7, 2001 . Retrieved April 22, 2011 . ^ American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) video on construction of an individual wind turbine. ^ p 107, Davies, Ivor It's A Triumph (Haynes Foulis 1980, 1990 edit.) ISBN 0 85429 182 2 ^ "2025 Fat Boy Motorcycle | Harley-Davidson USA" . Archived from the original on 2 March 2025 . Retrieved 2 March 2025 . ^ Cruising Catamaran Made Easy . American Sailing Association. 2016. pp. 16, 31. ISBN 9780982102541 . ^ Robinson, Ben; Riley, Marcus; Okuda, Michael (November 2010). U.S.S. Enterprise NX-01, NCC-1701, NCC-1701-A to NCC-1701-E, Owners' Workshop Manual . Gallery Books . p. 97. ISBN 9781451621297 . ^ Siegel, Ethan (15 October 2017). Treknology: The Science of Star Trek From Tricorders to Warp Drive . Voyageur Press . p. 11. ISBN 9780760352632 . v t e Aircraft components and systems Airframe structure Aft pressure bulkhead Cabane strut Canopy Crack arrestor Cruciform tail Dope Empennage Fabric covering Fairing Flying wires Former Fuselage Hardpoint Interplane strut Jury strut Leading edge Lift strut Longeron Nacelle Rib Spar Stabilizer Stressed skin Strut T-tail Tailplane Trailing edge Triple tail Twin tail V-tail Vertical stabilizer Wing root Wing tip Wingbox Flight controls Aileron Airbrake Artificial feel Autopilot Canard Centre stick Deceleron Dive brake Dual control Electro-hydraulic actuator Elevator Elevon Flaperon Flight control modes Fly-by-wire Gust lock HOTAS Rudder Rudder pedals Servo tab Side-stick Spoiler Spoileron Stabilator Stick pusher Stick shaker Trim tab Wing warping Yaw damper Yoke Aerodynamic and high-lift devices Active Aeroelastic Wing Adaptive compliant wing Anti-shock body Blown flap Channel wing Dog-tooth Drag-reducing aerospike Flap Gouge flap Gurney flap Krueger flap Leading-edge cuff Leading-edge droop flap LEX Slats Slot Stall strips Strake Variable-sweep wing Vortex generator Vortilon Wing fence Winglet Avionic and flight instrument systems ACAS Air data boom Air data computer Aircraft periscope Airspeed indicator Altimeter Annunciator panel Astrodome Attitude indicator Compass Course deviation indicator EFIS EICAS Flight management system Glass cockpit GPS Head-up display Heading indicator Horizontal situation indicator INS ISIS Multi-function display Pitot–static system Radar altimeter TCAS Transponder Turn and slip indicator Variometer Yaw string Propulsion controls, devices and fuel systems Autothrottle Drop tank FADEC Fuel tank Gascolator Inlet cone Intake ramp NACA cowling NACA duct Self-sealing fuel tank Splitter plate Throttle Thrust lever Thrust reversal Townend ring War emergency power Wet wing Landing and arresting gear Aircraft tire Arrestor hook Autobrake Conventional landing gear Drogue parachute Landing gear Landing gear extender Oleo strut Tricycle landing gear Tundra tire Escape systems Ejection seat Escape crew capsule Other systems Aircraft lavatory Auxiliary power unit Bleed air system Deicing boot Emergency oxygen system Environmental control system Flight recorder Hydraulic system Ice protection system In-flight entertainment system Landing lights Navigation light Passenger service unit Ram air turbine Portals : Technology Aviation Nacelle at Wikipedia's sister projects : Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nacelle&oldid=1315649322 " Category : Aircraft components Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2025 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011