https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HDC_Hyundai_EP

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia South Korean manufacturing company This article does not cite any sources . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . Find sources: "HDC Hyundai EP" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( November 2013 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) HDC Hyundai EP HDC현대EP Company type Public Founded Jan, 2000 Headquarters Chungcheongnam-do , South Korea Key people CHUNG JOONG KYU Number of employees 398 (2017) Website www .hdc-hyundaiep .com Founded in 1988 as the Petrochemical Division of HDC Group, Hyundai EP signed technology transfer contract with Solvay Engineered Polymer in 1991, focusing on developing advanced technologies, and built a compounding factory in Dangjin in 1994 to start developing and producing automobile bumpers and interior materials. After the department's separation from HDC in January 2000, Hyundai Engineering Plastic was established and strived to pioneer an independent market. Hyundai EP is developing fast with 25% of average annual growth since its foundation in 2000. Hyundai EP has four Business Units (PP Compounding BU, PE Compounding BU, PS/EPS BU and PB-1 PIPE BU). The Dangjin factory produces super engineering plastic, which can replace metals, based on the company's accumulated technologies and experiences, while the Jincheon factory is focused on producing PE compound, which is used for rubber parts of automobiles and electric and electronic products, steel pipe coating and adhesion materials, construction pipes, and containers, etc. The Ulsan factory of Hyundai EP has EPS and PS production lines, and the Jochiwon factory, after acquiring the construction material department from PEM Korea, develops and produces PB pipe, which is great for energy saving. Meanwhile, having taken the top market share in the automobile PP compound market, with 25% of average annual growth rate, Hyundai EP creates more enriched future with ceaseless challenge even in the top position. Hyundai EP is building a global network of manufacturing bases connecting Nagoya in Japan , Beijing , Suzhou , Guangzhou , and Dafeng , in China , and Chennai in india . In addition, through the partnership with LyondellBasell, the company is striving to expand the market to Turkey , Czech Republic , Slovakia , Brazil , and Alabama and Georgia , US. With continuous research and development for the last 25 years and discovery of domestic and international markets, Hyundai EP has won several Export Awards such as 10 Million Dollars in 2007, 50 Million Dollars in 2008, 70 Million Dollars in 2010, 200 Million Dollars in 2011. Also in 2012, Hyundai EP was awarded the 'IR 52 Jan Young-Sil' with 'Cloth Looking Filler Trim'. [ citation needed ] References [ edit ] v t e Hyundai Subsidiaries Current Hyundai Asan Hyundai Elevator Former and defunct Hynix Hyundai Logistics Hyundai Merchant Marine Hyundai Securities Hyundai Unicorns Successors HD Hyundai Group HDC Group HL Group Hyundai Corporation Group Hyundai Department Store Group Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Group Hyundai Motor Group Hyundai Sungwoo Group KCC Group People Chung Ju-yung Chung Mong-koo Chung Mong-hun Chung Mong-joon Chung Mong-won Chung Mong-gyu Chung Eui-sun Category Commons Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=HDC_Hyundai_EP&oldid=1275122638 " Categories : HDC Group Companies listed on the Korea Exchange Manufacturing companies established in 1988 South Korean companies established in 1988 Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles lacking sources from November 2013 All articles lacking sources All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2013