https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tire_rotation

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Changing the position of tires to ensure even wear This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Tire rotation" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2014 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Tire rotation is the practice of moving the wheels and tires of an automobile from one position to another, to ensure even tire wear. Even tire wear extends the useful life of a set of tires, but the value of this is disputed. Causes of uneven tire wear [ edit ] See also: Tire § Wear The differing weight placed on the tires by the front and rear axles causes uneven wear. With the majority of cars having the engine in front, the front tires typically bear more weight than the rear tires. Front-wheel drive vehicles have not only the engine but also the transaxle in front, adding to the weight difference. Moreover, additional stress is placed disproportionately on the front tires by braking and steering. Thus, tire rotation needs to occur more frequently for front-wheel drive vehicles. Turning the vehicle will cause uneven tire wear.  The outside, front tire is worn disproportionately. [ 1 ] In countries with right-hand traffic , for example, right turns are tighter than left turns and most cloverleaf interchanges and parking ramps are right-hand curves, so the left front tire wears faster than the right front, because the left tire travels a greater distance around those turns (the same way that an athlete in the leftmost lane would have to run further around an oval track than one in the rightmost if the race were being run clockwise from a flat line start) and a majority of turns will be to the right. [ 2 ] Conversely, the sidewalls on the right tire tends to be bumped and rubbed against the curb while parking the vehicle, causing asymmetric sidewall wear. The symmetric opposite occurs in countries that drive on the left. In addition, mechanical problems in the vehicle may cause uneven tire wear. Wheels misaligned with each other and/or with the vehicle's axis will tend to be dragged along by the other wheels, causing uneven wear in that tire. If the alignment is such that the vehicle tends to turn, the driver will correct by steering against the tendency. In effect the vehicle is constantly turning, causing uneven tire wear. Tire rotation practice [ edit ] Car and tire manufacturers may recommend tire rotation frequency and pattern, typically every 5,000 mi (≈8,000 km) to 8,000 mi (≈13,000 km) depending on the tire manufacturer and vehicle make [ 3 ] to ensure even tire wear. A common rotation pattern is to move the back wheels to the front, and the front to the back but crossing them when moving to the back. [ citation needed ] If the tires are unidirectional, the rotation can only be rotated front to back on the same side of the vehicle to preserve the rotational direction of the tires, unless they are remounted. More complex rotation patterns are required if the vehicle has a full-size spare tire that is part of the rotation, or if there are snow tires . Alternative views [ edit ] The benefits of achieving even tire wear, using rotation, are disputed. Some car manufacturers recommend against performing tire rotation, for example BMW . [ 4 ] Many tire manufacturers say that tire rotation is no longer necessary, except to ensure that best tires are fitted at the rear of the vehicle. [ 5 ] In practice this means that when the front tires become worn, the new ones should be fitted to the rear, moving the old rear tires to the front. Best tires on rear of vehicle Maximum vehicle control is achieved with the best tires on the rear wheels of the vehicle, whether it is front- or rear-wheel drive. [ 6 ] The reason for this is that if the rear wheels lose grip before the front ones, an oversteer condition will occur, which is harder to control than the corresponding understeer which will happen if a front wheel is lost. So the intuitive belief that the front steering/driving tires need to be the best quality is not the case. [ 7 ] This is also the case if a tire blows out. A rear tire blowout will cause the vehicle to become very difficult to control, especially at highway speeds. It also greatly increases the risk of rollover due to yawing , a condition where the rear of the vehicle swings out and becomes perpendicular to the direction of travel: yawing can cause the tire to separate from the rim, leading the rim to dig into the pavement, or dirt and grass if no longer on the road, which can trip the vehicle and cause its rollover. [ citation needed ] References [ edit ] Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Automobile Repair ^ Johnson, Mark (2021-11-22). "What Happens If You Don't Rotate Your Tires" . Tires Globe . Retrieved 2022-03-07 . ^ "What Is A Tire Rotation?" . Auto. September 4, 2022. ^ "Michelin Owner's manual" (PDF) . November 2012. p. 14 . Retrieved 9 November 2015 . ^ "BMW says to not rotate my tires, but the tire manufacturer says different. Who should I believe?" . ^ "Kwik Fit: Tyre Rotation - Current Recommendations" . Retrieved 15 May 2020 . ^ Demere, Marc (25 June 2012). "6 Common Tire Myths Debunked" . Popular Mechanics . Retrieved 14 July 2014 . ^ Russell, Richard (16 December 2015). "How important is proper tire rotation?" . The Globe and Mail . Retrieved 28 October 2016 . v t e Tires Types Tubeless tire Radial tire Low rolling resistance tire Run-flat tire Michelin PAX System Airless tire Tweel Rain tyre Snow tire All-terrain tire Bar grip Knobby tire Large tire Mud-terrain tire Paddle tire Orange oil tires Whitewall tire Aircraft tire Tundra tire Bicycle tire Tubular tire Lego tire Motorcycle tyre Tractor tire Racing slick Formula One tyres Spare tire Continental tire Components Bead Beadlock Tread Siping (rubber) Valve stem Dunlop valve Presta valve Schrader valve Attributes Camber thrust Circle of forces Cold inflation pressure Contact patch Cornering force Ground pressure Pacejka's Magic Formula Pneumatic trail Relaxation length Rolling resistance Self aligning torque Slip angle Steering ratio Tire balance Tire load sensitivity Tire uniformity Lateral Force Variation Radial Force Variation Traction (engineering) Treadwear rating Behaviors Aquaplaning Groove wander Slip (vehicle dynamics) Tramlining Maintenance Tire maintenance Tire rotation Bicycle pump Central Tire Inflation System Tire mousse Tire-pressure monitoring system Tire-pressure gauge Direct TPMS Bead breaker Tire changer Tire manipulator Tire iron Life cycle Tire manufacturing List of tire companies Retread Waste tires Tire recycling Tire fire Blowout Flat tire Ozone cracking Organizations European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation Tire Society Tire Science and Technology Identification Tire code Plus sizing Tire label Uniform Tire Quality Grading (UTQG) Outline of tires Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tire_rotation&oldid=1284795132 " Categories : Tires Automobile wheels Motor vehicle maintenance Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from September 2014 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014