https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69703246/moke-ev-california-for-sale-price

Moke International T he cute little Moke returns to the Golden State in EV form, taking inspiration from the original 1972 Moke Californian. Range and speed are acceptable for a beachgoing runabout, even if the price isn't low. V olume will be limited to 325 examples, which are all allocated for California. Originally launched in the 1960s, the Moke was a tiny Jeep-like vehicle with underpinnings from the BMC Mini. Citroën pulled off something similar with the Mehari, based on the 2CV, but, unfortunately, where the 2CV had been designed to drive across fields and other less-than-perfect terrain, the Mini was a city car. Try to off-road a Moke, and you'd probably get stuck. Nevertheless, the little Mini-based automotive donkey ("Moke" is actually an old term for a mule) was cute as anything and developed a bit of a following. There was nothing better for cruising along beside the beach in the sunshine, and the likes of Bridget Bardot used to load it up with her dogs. The Moke became an unlikely style icon, and if you're lucky enough to live in California, good news: it's back. For Sale Near You See all results for used cars for sale near 48083 Moke International Finally approved by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) this month, Moke International has now secured a retail partner and is launching in the Golden State. Fully electric, it's a modern take on the Mini-powered original, and it's also inspired by the 1972 Moke Californian. While you wouldn't want to be piloting one around Michigan right now, it's the perfect toy for SoCal sunshine. Power comes from a 44-hp electric motor hooked up to a relatively tiny 11-kWh battery pack. That's good for a claimed 54 miles of range, which isn't exactly road-trip material but perfectly adequate for beach trips. The top speed is 50 mph, which is also just fine for keeping up with your fellow road-users—who will undoubtedly be gawking out their windows at you. Moke International As a toy, it's expensive: $49,500. If you're after a cutesy runabout, a Fiat 500e might be a more sensible choice. But this is California, where exclusivity matters, and seeing as the Moke is only legal thanks to the Low Volume Motor Vehicles Act, you won't see many of them on the road. Only 325 per year can be sold. Moke International's partner for retail sales is Shaver Automotive, a California dealer group. Three colors will be available on launch, each given a California-inspired name: Sonoma Red, Laguna Blue, and Venice White. Vintage Mokes are very cool and can be surprisingly, perhaps alarmingly, quick if you fit some Cooper bits and uprated engines to them. However, as vintage British machines, they do require some mechanical aptitude. The new EV Moke offers a more turnkey experience, albeit at a steep premium. In smiles-per-dollar, though, it's hard to think of something with better returns. Related Stories Moke Californian EV Will Be Road Legal in the U.S. The Moke Is the Other James Bond Car Resort Casual: We Drive the Moke EV ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Brendan McAleer Contributing Editor Brendan McAleer is a freelance writer and photographer based in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada. He grew up splitting his knuckles on British automobiles, came of age in the golden era of Japanese sport-compact performance, and began writing about cars and people in 2008. His particular interest is the intersection between humanity and machinery, whether it is the racing career of Walter Cronkite or Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's half-century obsession with the Citroën 2CV. He has taught both of his young daughters how to shift a manual transmission and is grateful for the excuse they provide to be perpetually buying Hot Wheels.