https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69739850/gm-adds-apple-music-still-no-carplay-evs

General Motors General Motors announced that it will add Apple Music to its in-car infotainment system. Unfortunately, GM is sticking by its decision to withhold Apple CarPlay on its EV models. Apple Music is now available in a handful of 2025 and 2026 Cadillac and Chevy models, and GM plans to roll out the app to the rest of GM's fleet. General Motors is in the middle of a push to add more native apps to its in-vehicle software as a way to appease customers for not allowing phone mirroring on certain models. The newest addition to GM vehicles is Apple Music, which the automaker is adding to its 2025-and-newer vehicles. The move is a positive one, though it doesn't go the full way of replacing the usability of Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, which are currently absent on its new EVs. While the addition of Apple Music means drivers will be able to change their music without fiddling with their phones, it also means either using a non-mirrored phone for navigation or using GM's built-in navigation system on vehicles without CarPlay integration. It also gives GM the ability to charge you for access. The music streaming app will be added to GM's OnStar Basics package, giving users free access for the first eight years, but you'll be on the hook after that. For Sale Near You See all results for Cadillac for sale near 29405 General Motors Apple Music won't be available on every car right away, but 2025 and 2026 examples of the Cadillac CT5, Escalade IQ, and Vistiq can all use the app now. As can the 2025 and 2026 Chevy Blazer EV, Equinox EV, Silverado EV, Corvette, Suburban, and Tahoe. According to GM, the 2027 Chevy Bolt will be getting the app when that model launches, with Buick and GMC getting access sometime in the future. More on GM and CarPlay GM to Skip Apple CarPlay on Future EVs GM to Fully Ditch Apple CarPlay and Android Auto Tesla Is Reportedly Testing Apple CarPlay Support ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Jack Fitzgerald Associate News Editor Jack Fitzgerald’s love for cars stems from his as yet unshakable addiction to Formula 1. After a brief stint as a detailer for a local dealership group in college, he knew he needed a more permanent way to drive all the new cars he couldn’t afford and decided to pursue a career in auto writing. By hounding his college professors at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, he was able to travel Wisconsin seeking out stories in the auto world before landing his dream job at Car and Driver . His new goal is to delay the inevitable demise of his 2010 Volkswagen Golf.