https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69633363/2026-subaru-trailseeker-pricing

Subaru Look for another EV to join the Subaru Solterra in showrooms next year. And though the midsize Trailseeker will reportedly slot above its compact electric stablemate, the Trailseeker comes in at almost identical dimensions—and with an almost identical sticker. That the 2026 Trailseeker is described as “bigger” comes down largely to cargo space. Interior passenger dimensions mirror that of the Solterra to the tenth, and the wheelbase remains the same at 112.2 inches; the extra 6.2 inches of length (at 190.8) get thrown entirely at the grocery-hauling end of the vehicle. Related Story 2026 Subaru Trailseeker Doubles Subie’s EV Efforts Extra surprising is that this second electric Subaru will start at far below where we presumed when it was revealed last spring. When it arrives at dealerships early next year, the Trailseeker will start at $41,445, just $1,500 more than the Solterra and putting it among the most affordable AWD EVs available. The Trailseeker will get a revised version of the brand’s Symmetrical All-Wheel-Drive system, which Subaru says will give the EV the same off-pavement chops as the rest of its lineup while still catering to the suburban swarms that make up the bulk of its fanbase. The dual-motor setup turns out a combined 375 hp, which Subaru says is good for a 0 to 60 mph time of 4.4 seconds. That’s something to chew on: It will be the quickest production Subaru ever sold in the US. Yes, faster than the WRX—even the STi. Subaru Range is estimated at about 280 miles from the 74.7-kWh battery pack. As Subaru was among the throngs to adopt the North American Charging Standard, the Trailseeker will have access to Tesla’s extensive charging network. It will also benefit from fast-charging speeds reaching 150 kW; Subaru says that translates into 80% charge in as little as 28 minutes. A battery-preconditioning feature helps maintain charging performance in colder weather. Subaru will offer the Trailseeker in three familiar trims, including Premium, Limited, and Touring. Each will boast 8.3 inches of ground clearance, standard X-MODE with Snow/Dirt and Deep Snow/Mud settings, Grip Control, and Downhill Assist. Subaru Inside, its 32.2 cubic feet of cargo capacity behind the rear seats gets close to that of the Outback (at 34.6), which expands to 74.0 cu-ft with the back seats stowed. The roof rails offer a hefty 700-lb load rating for rooftop tents or adventure gear (or, let’s be real, the Thule cargo boxes that live up there year-round). Maximum tow capacity is 3,500 pounds. All Trailseekers will get standard a 14-inch central touchscreen, the largest the company has ever used, housed in a clean, horizontal dash design. Premium models will come with StarTex upholstery and a long list of tech and safety features, including wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, Subaru’s full EyeSight driver-assist suite, and dual wireless phone chargers. Limited and Touring trims add even more amenities, including a Harman Kardon audio system, heated rear seats, a panoramic camera system, and on the Touring, ventilated seats and a panoramic glass roof. Look for Trailseeker to hit showrooms in early next year. Natalie Neff But for a couple of sketchy, short-lived gigs right out of college, Natalie Neff has had the good fortune to spend the entirety of her professional life around cars. A 2017 Honda Ridgeline, 1972 VW Beetle, 1999 Ducati Monster and a well-loved purple-and-white five-speed Schwinn currently call her garage home.