https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nut_driver

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Hand tool for nuts and bolts, similar to a screwdriver A 1 ⁄ 4 in (6.35 mm) Xcelite nut driver with a fixed socket. An Easco spinner handle with a detachable 1 ⁄ 4 in (6.35 mm) socket attached. A nutdriver or nut driver is a hand tool for tightening or loosening nuts and bolts . It essentially consists of a socket attached to a shaft and cylindrical handle and is similar in appearance and use to a screwdriver . [ 1 ] They generally have a hollow shaft to accommodate a shank onto which a nut is threaded. They are typically used for lower torque applications than wrenches or ratchets and are frequently used in the appliance repair [ 1 ] and electronics industries. [ 2 ] Variations include T-shaped handles for providing the operator with a better grip, ratcheting handles, sockets with recessed magnets for holding fasteners , and flex shafts for bending around obstructions. Indexable bits with the same purpose, to be held either in indexable handles or in power tool chucks, are called nutsetters . A spinner handle is a shaft and handle with a drive fitting—most commonly 1 ⁄ 4 in (6.35 mm) square axle at the end for attaching interchangeable sockets. This allows one to use a single handle with a number of sizes instead of having a separate nut driver for each size. However, a spinner lacks the benefit of a hollow shaft; thus, a common alternative system is a single handle with interchangeable shafts in each size. See also [ edit ] Can wrench List of tools and equipment Socket wrench References [ edit ] ^ a b Eugene Silberstein (12 May 2011). Residential Construction Academy HVAC . Cengage Learning. pp. 115–. ISBN 978-1-285-22526-5 . ^ Gerry Herrick (January 1992). Electronic assembly: soft soldering and wire wrapping . Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0-13-248766-5 . External links [ edit ] Media related to Nut drivers at Wikimedia Commons v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking This tool article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nut_driver&oldid=1309359529 " Categories : Tool stubs Mechanical hand tools Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Commons category link from Wikidata All stub articles