https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_tool

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Tool that is actuated by an additional power source and mechanism other than by hand alone A power tool is a tool that is actuated by an additional power source and mechanism other than the solely manual labor used with hand tools . The most common types of power tools use electric motors . Internal combustion engines and compressed air are also commonly used. Tools directly driven by animal power are not generally considered power tools. Power tools can produce large amounts of particulates , including ultrafine particles . Airborne particulate matter is a Group 1 carcinogen . Uses [ edit ] Diverse power tools Power tools are used in industry, in construction , in renovation , in the garden, for housework tasks such as cooking , cleaning , and around the house for purposes of driving ( fasteners ), drilling , cutting , shaping, sanding , grinding , routing , polishing , painting, metalworking , woodworking , heating and more. Using hand and power tools to cut plastic materials during construction activities can generate microplastics . Airborne microplastics is a type of particulates . Further studies are needed "on the different types of cutting tools and their associated MP production". [ 1 ] Classification [ edit ] A shop under renovation (power tools can be seen on the left of the photo). Power tools are classified as either stationary or portable, where portable means hand-held. Portable power tools have obvious advantages in mobility. Stationary power tools, however, often have advantages in speed and precision. A typical table saw, for instance, not only cuts faster than a regular hand saw, but the cuts are smoother, straighter, and more square than what is normally achievable with a hand-held power saw. Some stationary power tools can produce objects that cannot be made in any other way. Lathes , for example, produce truly round objects. Stationary power tools for metalworking are usually called machine tools . The term machine tool is not usually applied to stationary power tools for woodworking , although such usage is occasionally heard, and in some cases, such as drill presses and bench grinders , exactly the same tool is used for both woodworking and metalworking. Health impact [ edit ] See also: Microplastics and human health , Health impacts of sawdust , Metal fume fever , and Toxic heavy metal This section needs expansion with: on-tool extraction. You can help by adding to it . ( March 2023 ) While hand-held power tools are helpful, they also produce large amounts of noise , vibrations [ 2 ] and particulates including ultrafine particles . [ 3 ] Airborne particulate matter is a Group 1 carcinogen . [ 4 ] Particulates are the most harmful form (other than ultra-fines ) of air pollution [ 5 ] as they can penetrate deep into the lungs and brain from blood streams, causing health problems such as heart disease , lung disease , and premature death . [ 6 ] There is no safe level of particulates. A 2013 study concluded that "particulate matter air pollution contributes to lung cancer incidence in Europe". [ 7 ] Worldwide, exposure to PM 2.5 contributed to 4.1 million deaths from heart disease, stroke, lung cancer, chronic lung disease, and respiratory infections in 2016. [ 8 ] Overall, ambient particulate matter is one of the leading risk factor for premature death globally. [ 9 ] Many construction tasks create dust . High dust levels are caused by one of more the following: A high dust level example. equipment – using high energy tools, such as cut-off saws, grinders, wall chasers and grit blasters produce a lot of dust in a very short time work method – dry sweeping can make a lot of dust when compared to vacuuming or wet brushing work area – the more enclosed a space, the more the dust will build up time – the longer you work the more dust there will be Examples of high dust level tasks include: using power tools to cut, grind, drill or prepare a surface sanding taped plaster board joints dry sweeping [ 10 ] Some industry standards on the size and amount of dust emitted by power tools exist, [ 11 ] [ 12 ] though it appears that they are not widely known or used globally. Knowing that dust is generated throughout the construction process and can cause serious health hazards, [ 13 ] manufacturers are now marketing power tools that are equipped with dust collectors (e.g. HEPA vacuum cleaners) or integrated water delivery system which extract the dust after emission. [ 14 ] [ 15 ] However, the use of such products is still not common in most places. As of Q1 2024, petrol powered tools are banned in California. [ 16 ] Using power tools without hearing protection over a long period of time can put a person at risk for hearing loss . The U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has recommended that a person should not be exposed to noise at or above 85 dB , for the sake of hearing loss prevention. [ 17 ] Most power tools, including drills , circular saws , belt sanders , and chainsaws , operate at sound levels above the 85 dB limit, some even reaching over 100 dB. [ 2 ] NIOSH strongly recommends wearing hearing protection while using these kinds of power tools. [ 18 ] Angle grinder [ edit ] Main article: Angle grinder § Safety and health History [ edit ] Shaft and belt system Early Industrial Revolution -era factories had batteries of power tools driven by belts from overhead shafts. The prime power source was a water wheel or (later) a steam engine. The introduction of the electric motor (and electric distribution networks) in the 1880s made possible the self-powered stationary and portable tools we know today. [ 19 ] The global market for power tools is $33 billion (in 2016) and estimated to reach $46 billion in 2025. Safety Enhancement [ edit ] Prior to the 1930s, power tools were often housed in cast metal housings. The cast metal housings were heavy, contributing to repetitive use injuries, as well as conductive – often shocking the user. As Henry Ford adapted to the manufacturing needs of World War II , he requested that A. H. Peterson, a tool manufacturer, create a lighter electric drill that was more portable for his assembly line workers. [ 20 ] At this point, the Hole-Shooter, a drill that weighed 5 lbs. was created by A. H. Peterson. The Peterson Company eventually went bankrupt after a devastating fire and recession , but the company was auctioned off to A. F. Siebert, [ 21 ] a former partner in the Peterson Company, in 1924 and became the Milwaukee Electric Tool Company . [ 22 ] In the early 1930s, companies started to experiment with housings of thermosetting polymer plastics. In 1956, under the influence of Hans Erich Slany , Robert Bosch GmbH was one of the first companies to introduce a power tool housing made of glass filled nylon. [ 23 ] Energy sources [ edit ] As of 2021, an electric motor is the most popular choice to power stationary tools. Other power sources include steam engines , direct burning of fuels and propellants, such as in powder-actuated tools , or even natural power sources such as wind or moving water . In the past, stationary tools were powered by windmills , water wheels, and steam. Some museums and hobbyists still maintain and operate stationary tools powered by these older power sources. Portable electric tools may be either corded or battery-powered. Compressed air is the customary power source for nailers and paint sprayers. A few tools (called powder-actuated tools ) are powered by explosive cartridges. Tools that run on gasoline or gasoline-oil mixes are made for outdoor use; typical examples include most chainsaws and string trimmers . Other tools like blowtorches will burn their fuel externally to generate heat. Compressed air is universally used where there is a possibility of fuel or vapor ignition - such as automotive workshops. Professional level electric tools differ from DIY or 'consumer' tools by being double insulated and not earthed - in fact, they must not be earthed for safety reasons. Battery types [ edit ] Different battery powered power tools often use batteries which are not compatible across brands and models. This may cause vendor lock-in , and results in poor sustainability if and when either the battery, charger, or power tool component fails, resulting in potentially all having to be replaced. Examples of battery differences include the battery technologies themselves, with nickel-metal hydride (NiMH) and nickel–cadmium batteries (Ni-Cd) being common previously, [ 24 ] but as of 2021, lithium-ion batteries have become the de facto standard for new power tools. The voltage is one of the most important factors for battery compatibility. In simple terms, a higher voltage rating on the tool often means that the power tool can deliver more power, with all else being equal. Using a battery with the wrong voltage rating may damage the tool, persons, or surroundings. As of 2021, 18-volt battery packs are the de facto standard in new power tools. The ampere-hour , in simple terms, tells something about how long the power tool can operate before it needs to be recharged. If comparing two batteries with the same battery technology and same voltage rating, a battery with twice the amp hour rating should last about twice as long. In practice there may however be some variations to this. Also, batteries with a higher amp hour rating in practice can also often let the power tool deliver a slightly higher peak power due to the ability to deliver a higher current. [ citation needed ] Even when using the same battery technology, voltage rating and amp hour rating, the interface of batteries for power tools are often not compatible across different manufacturers, and sometimes also not even within the same brand or product line. There are examples of aftermarket adapters being made so that the user can mix and match batteries between well-known brands, but these often do not fully implement the tools battery safety and monitoring systems and the use is done at the user's own risk. Battery alliances [ edit ] There are initiatives with the goal that the same battery can be used across products from several manufacturers, mostly those who offer special tools rather than general ones. Mainly two German companies have opened their 18V systems for others: In June 2018, nine companies presented a manufacturer-overlapping system for rechargeable batteries called "Cordless Alliance System" (CAS). [ 25 ] It is based on Metabo's 18 Volt battery system. In 2020, Bosch initiated the "Power For All Alliance". [ 26 ] Notably, the alliance consists of the brands Gardena , Gloria, [ 27 ] Wagner [ 28 ] and Rapid. However, the Power For All Alliance batteries will only be used on Bosch's consumer tools in the Bosch Home & Garden line and Bosch Home Appliances line. AMPShare – powered by Bosch Professional [ 29 ] is the new name for the alliance using Bosch professional ("blue") tools with its own battery and charger system which is incompatible with the Power For All batteries. Aimed at most parts of the world except North America, it claims to be based on 80 million batteries sold since 2008. Over two dozen companies take part. Types [ edit ] See also: List of power tools Power tools include: Air compressor Alligator shear Angle grinder Bandsaw Belt sander Biscuit joiner Ceramic tile cutter Chainsaw Circular saw Concrete mixer Concrete saw Cold saw Crusher Diamond blade Diamond tool Die grinder Disc cutter Disc sander Drill Floor sander Grinding machine Heat gun Hedge trimmer Impact driver Impact wrench Jackhammer Jointer Jigsaw Knitting machine Lathe Lawn mower Leaf blower Miter saw Multi-tool Nail gun (electric and battery as well as powder actuated) Needlegun scaler Pneumatic torque wrench Powder-actuated tools Power wrench Pressure washer Radial arm saw Random orbital sander Reciprocating saw Rotary saw Rotary tool Rotary tiller Sabre saw Sander Scroll saw Snow blower Steel cut off saw String trimmer Table saw Thickness planer Wall chaser Wood router Manufacturers [ edit ] Power tool manufacturers with a full range program [ edit ] Brand Owner Headquarters AEG Electric Tools Techtronic Industries (TTI) by acquiring the AEG Electric Tools brand in 2004. Brand under license from Electrolux . China Black & Decker Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. United States DeWalt Craftsman Bosch Robert Bosch GmbH Germany Hikoki Formerly Hitachi Group. today owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Japan United States Hilti Hilti AG Liechtenstein Makita Makita Cooperation Japan Mastercraft Canadian Tire Corporation Canada Metabo Metabowerke GmbH . today owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Germany United States Milwaukee Techtronic Industries (TTI) by acquiring Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation in 2005 United States China Ryobi Power Tools Techtronic Industries (TTI) by acquiring Ryobi 's North American power tools business in 2000. Brand under license from Ryobi Limited . Japan China Specialized companies [ edit ] A number of companies, some of which are comparatively small and specialized, build niche solutions for industry and trade. Brand Owner Headquarters Usage / Program Dolmar Makita Corporation , Japan, by acquiring Dolmar GmbH 1991 Germany Japan Forestry and garden tools Dremel Dremel now a brand of Bosch Power Tools United States Germany Fast-moving multifunctional tools Duss Friedrich Duss Maschinenfabrik GmbH & Co. KG Germany Drilling (hammer drills, chisel hammers, diamond drills) Fein Fein-Verwaltung GmbH of C. & E. Fein GmbH Tool for cutting, drilling and grinding (metal construction) Festool TTS Tooltechnic Systems Holding AG ( Wendlingen ) Sawing and sanding for wood construction (also compressed air) Flex Chervon Holdings Ltd, Owner of Flex-Elektrowerkzeuge GmbH (Deutschland, Steinheim an der Murr ) Germany China Separating, grinding and screwing Hazet Hazet GmbH, Germany Impact screws (mainly pneumatic range) Lösomat Gedore GmbH, Remscheid (Gedore Torque Solutions), by acquiring Lösomat Schraubtechnik Neef GmbH , Vaihingen an der Enz High-torque screwdriver tools Mafell Mafell AG Sawing (wood) Matjeschk M-PT Matjeschk-PowerTools GmbH & Co. KG, Ralbitz-Rosenthal Bohren und Schrauben Perles ATech d.o.o. Slovenia Drilling tools Stihl Stihl AG Germany Forestry and garden tools Trading companies [ edit ] With purchases from other manufacturers and OEM production Brand Owner Headquarters Program range AEG Electric Tools Techtronic Industries (TTI) by acquiring the AEG Electric Tools brand in 2004 and licensed the brand name from Electrolux , the AEG owner. China Full range Einhell Einhell Germany AG , Landau an der Isar Germany Parkside Lidl Stiftung & Co. KG Stahlwerk Stahlwerk Schweissgeräte GmbH Worx Positec Tool Corporation China Full range Würth Würth-Group Germany More brands and its manufacturer [ edit ] The incomplete list lists the brand first, then its manufacturer or owner. Baier Power Tools , brand of Otto Baier GmbH , Germany Casals Power Tools from Spain, brand of Interskol Group , Russia Duss of Friedrich Duss Maschinenfabrik GmbH & Co. KG , Germany Narex , Czech Republic, today owned by TTS Tooltechnic Systems (Festool) and OEM for other manufacturer Panasonic , Japan REMS, Germany Skil , brand of Chervon, China Trotec , brand of Trodat GmbH , Austria Trumpf , Germany See also [ edit ] Antique tools Cutting tools Cutting tool material Garden tools Hand arm vibrations NIOSH Power Tools Database Occupational dust exposure References [ edit ] ^ "2.3.1 and 6.2", Sources, Pathways and Environmental Fate of Microplastics (PDF) , EPA (Ireland) , March 2023 , retrieved 22 Dec 2024 ^ a b "NIOSH Power tools database" . Archived from the original on 2009-11-12 . Retrieved 2009-06-19 . ^ "Particulate matter emissions from activities of building refurbishment" . ^ "EHP – Outdoor Particulate Matter Exposure and Lung Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis" . ehp.niehs.nih.gov . Archived from the original on 29 May 2016 . Retrieved 2016-12-29 . ^ Wasley, Andrew; Heal, Alexandra; Harvey, Fiona ; Lainio, Mie (13 June 2019). "Revealed: UK government failing to tackle rise of serious air pollutant" . The Guardian . ^ US EPA, OAR (26 April 2016). "Health and Environmental Effects of Particulate Matter (PM)" . US EPA . Retrieved 5 October 2019 . ^ Raaschou-Nielsen, Ole; Andersen, Zorana J; Beelen, Rob; Samoli, Evangelia; Stafoggia, Massimo; Weinmayr, Gudrun; et al. (August 2013). "Air pollution and lung cancer incidence in 17 European cohorts: prospective analyses from the European Study of Cohorts for Air Pollution Effects (ESCAPE)" . The Lancet Oncology . 14 (9): 813– 822. doi : 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70279-1 . PMID 23849838 . Archived from the original on May 30, 2020. ^ "STATE OF GLOBAL AIR/2018 A SPECIAL REPORT ON GLOBAL EXPOSURE TO AIR POLLUTION AND ITS DISEASE BURDEN" (PDF) . Health Effects Institute. 2018. ^ "The Weight of Numbers: Air Pollution and PM 2.5 " . Undark . Retrieved 6 September 2018 . ^ This article incorporates text published under the British Open Government Licence : "Frequently asked questions – Dust" . HSE GOV.UK . 13 Jun 2023 . Retrieved 8 Apr 2024 . ^ "EN 50632-1" . ^ "EN 50632-2-5" . ^ "FAQs - Dust, HSE" . ^ "Beware of dust - Hilti Canada" . Archived from the original on 2025-06-01 . Retrieved 2023-02-04 . ^ "Dust control - Hilti Hong Kong" . ^ Shiffler, Amanda (2023-12-18). "California's Green Lawn Care Law: What You Need to Know" . Lawn Care Blog | Lawn Love . Retrieved 2024-03-13 . ^ "Criteria for a Recommended Standard: Occupational Noise Exposure Revised Criteria" . Basis for the Exposure Standard : 24– 5. 1998. ^ Franks, John R., ed. (1996). Appendix A: OSHA Noise Standard Compliance Checklist (PDF) . U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. p. 60. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2010-03-09 . Retrieved 2009-06-19 . {{ cite book }} : |work= ignored ( help ) ^ "Modern Marvels: The World's First Power Tools" . History . Archived from the original on January 25, 2013 . Retrieved Oct 4, 2011 . ^ "History of Milwaukee" . Milwaukee Tool Corporation . ^ "None" (PDF) . ^ Nagyszalanczy, Sandor (2001). Power Tools: An Electrifying Celebration and Grounded Guide . Newtown, CT: The Taunton Press. ISBN 978-1-56158-427-7 . ^ Ogursky, Gunter. Design: The Quality Factor . Esslingen, Germany: Robert Bosch GmbH. ^ "Battery types" . Archived from the original on February 18, 2016. ^ "CAS - Diese neun Firmen nutzen ein gemeinsames Akku-System" . 20 June 2018. ^ "THE battery for your home and garden" . POWER FOR ALL ALLIANCE . ^ "Gloria: History" . www.gloriagarten.de . ^ "Bosch, WAGNER, Gardena und weitere Hersteller gründen Akku-Allianz | WAGNER" . ^ "AMPShare" . www.ampshare.com . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Power tools . California to stop the sale of small gas-powered engines (2024) What's the best way to cut thick steel? (very short video) v t e Power tools Sawhorse Workbench Air hammer Angle grinder Bandsaw Belt sander Blowtorch Circular saw Concrete saw Crusher Cutting torch Die grinder Drill Electric motor brake Glue gun Hammer drill Heat gun Impact driver Impact wrench Jackhammer Jigsaw Jointer Multi-tool Nail gun Power miter saw Nibbler Power trowel Radial arm saw Random orbital sander Reciprocating saw Rivet gun Rotary hammer Rotary saw Router table Sander Screw gun Scroll saw Shear Soldering gun Soldering iron Steam box Table saw Thickness planer Wood router Wood shaper Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking v t e Power tool manufacturers Altendorf Bosch Dremel Einhell Emak Emerson Fein Festool Flex-Elektrowerkzeuge Hilti Hitachi Honda Husqvarna Gardena Jonsered McCulloch Nemo Power Tools Poulan Weed Eater Ingersoll Rand Apex Tool Group Illinois Tool Works Miller Paslode Kyeyang Electric Mafell Makita Dolmar MAT Holdings Metabo Mondial Oregon Tool Panasonic Positec Rockwell Tools WORX Ridgid SawStop Scheppach Skil Stanley Black & Decker Black+Decker Bostitch Craftsman Cub Cadet DeWalt Mac Tools MTD Porter-Cable Sidchrome Stiga Stihl Techtronic Industries AEG Electric Tools (under license) Homelite Milwaukee Ryobi power tools (under license) Yamabiko v t e Types of tools Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking Categories Tools Commons Tools Authority control databases : National Latvia Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Power_tool&oldid=1325622332 " Categories : Power tools Metalworking tools Hidden categories: Open Government Licence attribution CS1 errors: periodical ignored CS1: unfit URL Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles to be expanded from March 2023 All articles to be expanded All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2021 Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles containing video clips