https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twentieth_Century_Motor_Car_Corporation

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American automobile company For the fictional corporation, see Atlas Shrugged . Twentieth Century Motor Car Corporation Industry Automobile Founded 1974 Defunct 1978 Fate Dissolved Headquarters Burbank, California , US Key people Geraldine Elizabeth Carmichael Dale Clifft Products Vehicles (none produced) Number of employees None known other than key people The Twentieth Century Motor Car Corporation was an American automobile company started by Geraldine Elizabeth "Liz" Carmichael in 1974 and incorporated in Nevada. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] The company's flagship vehicle was the Dale , a prototype three-wheeled two-seater automobile designed and built by Dale Clifft. It was touted as being powered by an 850 cc air-cooled engine and featuring 70 mpg ‑US (3.4 L/100 km; 84 mpg ‑imp ) fuel economy and a $2,000 price (roughly equivalent to $12,000 in 2024), which were popular specifications during the mid-1970s US fuel crisis . [ 4 ] No vehicles were produced. The company would ultimately prove fraudulent when Carmichael went into hiding with investors' money. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Vehicles [ edit ] The Dale [ edit ] This section may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards . The specific problem is: It's written in the style of a fanzine. Please help improve this section if you can. ( August 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Before meeting Geraldine Elizabeth "Liz" Carmichael, Dale Clifft hand-built a car made of tubing and covered in red metal flake Naugahyde . It was powered by a 305cc Honda Super Hawk motorcycle welded into the metal frame. [ 7 ] The Dale prototype was designed and built by Clifft, and Carmichael subsequently marketed the project. Much of the interest in the Dale resulted from the 1973 oil crisis: fuel-economy automobiles like the Dale were viewed as a solution to the oil crunch. Speaking to the Chicago Sun-Times in November 1974, Carmichael said she "was on the way to taking on General Motors or any other car manufacturer for that matter". She also claimed she had millions of dollars in backing "from private parties" and talked of a 150,000 sq ft (14,000 m 2 ) corporate office in Encino, California . The prototypes were built in Canoga Park , and an aircraft hangar in Burbank was supposedly leased for the assembly plant, with more than 100 employees claimed to be on the payroll. [ 8 ] The Dale was also marketed as high-tech, lightweight, and safer than any existing car at the time. [ 4 ] "By eliminating a wheel in the rear, we saved 300 pounds and knocked more than $300 from the car's price. The Dale is 190 inches long, 51 inches high and weighs less than 1,000 pounds," Carmichael claimed. She maintained that the car's lightness did not affect its stability or safety. She claimed the low center of gravity always remained inside the triangle of the three wheels, making it nearly impossible to tip over. She also went on record to say that she drove it into a wall at 30 mph (48 km/h) and there was no structural damage to the car (or her). Carmichael claimed the Dale was powered by a thoroughly overhauled BMW two-cylinder motorcycle engine, which generated 40 hp (30 kW) and would allow the car to reach 85 mph (137 km/h). She said she expected sales of 88,000 cars in the first year and 250,000 in the second year. [ 8 ] The vehicle's wheelbase was 114 in (2.90 m). [ 2 ] A non-functional model of the Dale was displayed at the 1975 Los Angeles Auto Show. A model of the car was also shown on the television game show The Price Is Right as a prize. [ 9 ] Other vehicles [ edit ] Carmichael proposed two additional vehicles to complement the Dale: the Revelle and the Vanagen, which are station wagons . [ 2 ] Both featured a three-wheeled design and used the same two-cylinder engine. None of the vehicles were produced, and only three prototype Dale vehicles were made. Only one prototype could move under its own power. Fraud [ edit ] The company had already encountered legal troubles when California's Corporations Department ordered it to stop offering stock for public sale because it had no permit. [ 1 ] Rumors of fraud emerged, followed by investigations by a TV reporter and some newspapers. [ 2 ] The California Department of Corporations began an investigation as well. [ 10 ] Although Clifft said he still believed in the project and was promised $3 million in royalties once the Dale went into production, he only received $1,001, plus a $2,000 check, which bounced. [ 2 ] Carmichael went into hiding and was featured in a 1989 episode of Unsolved Mysteries , [ 11 ] which detailed the fraud behind the Dale for which she was a wanted fugitive. [ 12 ] She was eventually found working at a flower shop in Dale, Texas , under the alias Katherine Elizabeth Johnson. [ 9 ] She was arrested, extradited to California, [ 2 ] tried, and sent to prison for eighteen months. [ 9 ] [ 13 ] Carmichael died of cancer in 2004. [ 13 ] Clifft, who was never shown to have been involved in the fraud, later formed The Dale Development Co. and developed and received several patents [ 7 ] before dying in 1981. HBO documentary [ edit ] HBO premiered a four-part documentary titled The Lady and the Dale on January 31, 2021. The directors of the series are Nick Cammilleri and Zackary Drucker . The documentary has been described as "... a lot of stories - about fraud, flight, FBI manhunts, transgender politics, selective prosecution, bias in the media, and corruption in the courts." [ 14 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b People Staff (March 10, 1975). "Liz Carmichael's Dream Buggy Turns into a Nightmare" . People . Retrieved February 4, 2020 . ^ a b c d e f Skinner, Phil (February 17, 1994). "The Cockeyed Tale of the Three-Wheeled Dale" (PDF) . Old Cars News and Marketplace . Archived from the original (PDF) on October 22, 2020 . Retrieved February 4, 2020 – via 3wheelers.com. ^ "Dale" . 3wheelers.com . ^ a b "Dale Sales Brochure". Twentieth Century Motor Car Corporation . 1974. ^ "Libertarian Ripoff of the Month Dept" (PDF) . The Libertarian Forum . May 1975 . Retrieved 2009-07-01 . ^ "Libertarian Ripoff of the Month Dept" (PDF) . The Libertarian Forum . May 1975 . Retrieved 2021-01-16 . ^ a b Smith, Richard (2010). "3wheelers.com e-interview with Richard Smith" . 3wheelers.com . Interviewed by Elvis Payne. Elvis Payne . Retrieved February 4, 2020 . ^ a b Jedlinka, Dan (November 14, 1974). "This one may be the car of the century". Chicago Sun-Times . ^ a b c Torchinsky, Jason (April 1, 2013). "Murder, Transsexuals, And The Price Is Right: The Story Of The Dale Car Hoax" . Jalopnik . Retrieved February 4, 2020 . ^ "Car Firm's Records Show Many Cash Transactions" (PDF) . San Gabriel Valley Tribune . Associated Press . February 12, 1975. p. A6 . Retrieved February 4, 2020 – via 3wheelers.com. ^ Unsolved Mysteries , Season 1, Episode 20 NBC. April 5, 1989 ^ Lerner, Preston; Stone, Matt (December 7, 2012). "History's Greatest Automotive Mysteries, Myths and Rumors Revealed" . The New York Times . Retrieved 21 June 2015 . ^ a b Foster, Pat (August 2011). "The Right to Remain Historical" . Hemmings Classic Car . Retrieved 21 June 2015 . ^ Anderson, John (28 January 2021). " 'The Lady and the Dale' Review: Running on Fumes" . The Wall Street Journal . Retrieved 1 February 2021 . External links [ edit ] Dale(USA) - More articles about the Dale v t e Automotive industry in the United States Automotive industry Economy of the United States Transportation in the United States Vehicle manufacturers and brands Current ( list ) AGCO Challenger Tractor Massey Ferguson AM General Anteros Coachworks Amp Electric Vehicles Arcimoto Armour Group ATK motorcycles Autocar Blue Bird Callaway Cars Caterpillar Inc. Czinger Chenowth Racing Products Environmental Performance Vehicles Equus Automotive Forest River Champion Bus Collins ElDorado National Glaval Bus Starcraft Bus Ford Lincoln SVT General Dynamics Land Systems General Motors Buick Cadillac Cadillac V series Chevrolet Chevrolet Performance GMC Gillig Growler Manufacturing and Engineering Harley-Davidson Ingersoll Rand Club Car HDT Global HME International Motors IC Bus John Deere Karma Automotive Laffite Lenco Industries Lockheed Martin Lucid Motors Mack Trucks Millennium Luxury Coaches Morgan Olson Motor Coach Industries Oshkosh Pierce Paccar Kenworth Peterbilt Panoz Phoenix Motorcars Polaris Industries Global Electric Motorcars Indian Victory REV Group Fleetwood Holiday Rambler Laymor Wheeled Coach Rezvani Motors Rivian Scuderia Cameron Glickenhaus SSC North America Superformance Telo Tesla Textron Arctic Cat E-Z-Go Cushman Trans Tech Ultimaster VIA Motors VLF Automotive Xos, Inc. Zero Motorcycles Foreign subsidiaries BMW Daimler Truck Honda Acura Hyundai Motor Group Hyundai Kia Mazda Mercedes-Benz Mitsubishi Nissan Infiniti Seres Group Seres Stellantis 1 Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram Subaru Toyota Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing Volkswagen Defunct / former 2 Allis-Chalmers American Austin American Electric American LaFrance American Motors Hudson Essex Terraplane Nash Rambler Armor Armored Auburn Aurica Autoette Avanti Avery BMC Boulder Electric Vehicle Carbon Motors Corporation Checker Motors Corporation Clydesdale Motor Truck Company Coda 2 Commonwealth Cord Case CNH Global Cycle-Scoot DeLorean Diamond-Star Duesenberg Durant Flint Locomobile Mason Rugby Star Eagle Bus Excalibur Fiberfab Fitch Four Drive Fisker Automotive Fisker Coachbuild Force Protection Ford Continental Edsel Mercury FMC 2 General Motors Cartercar Elmore GM Diesel Geo LaSalle Marquette McLaughlin Oakland Oldsmobile Pontiac Saturn Scripps-Booth Sheridan Viking Yellow Coach Goshen Coach Green GreenTech Grumman Henney International Harvester Jeffery Kaiser-Frazer Allstate Frazer Henry J Kaiser Willys Local Marathon Marmon Roosevelt Marvel Matbro Mercer Monaco Coach Mosler MotoCzysz Muntz New United North American Bus Industries Oliver Farm Equipment Packard Peerless Pierce-Arrow Proterra Sebring Vanguard Stellantis Eagle Plymouth Sterling Studebaker Erskine Rockne Stutz Scion Twentieth Century United Defense VPG Visionary VL White Wildfire ZAP Zimmer Concept and pre-production Alpha Motor Corporation Aptera Motors Bollinger Motors Canoo Commuter Cars Elio Motors Faraday Future Fisker Inc Lordstown Motors Myers Motors Nikola Slate Auto Trion Supercars Factories Active BMW Spartanburg Chrysler (list) Ford (list) General Motors (list) Honda (list) Hyundai (Alabama) Hyundai Metaplant (Georgia) Kia Motors Manufacturing Georgia Mercedes-Benz (Alabama) Subaru (Indiana) Tesla (list) Volkswagen (Chattanooga) Defunct Chrysler (list) Ford (list) General Motors (list) Packard Volkswagen (Westmoreland) Auto component makers and performance car modders Allison American Expedition Vehicles Aptiv BFGoodrich BorgWarner Callaway Cars Caterpillar Cummins Brammo Detroit Diesel Eaton Firestone General Tire Goodyear Cooper Tire & Rubber Company Hennessey Ingersoll Rand Legacy Lingenfelter Nexteer Remy International Saleen Shelby American SRT Timken Uniroyal Torrington Visteon Design studios Calty Design Research Designworks Rezvani Automotive Designs Wheego Electric Cars By state Massachusetts Related topics AAA Chicago Auto Show Interstate Highway System List of automobiles manufactured in the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration New York International Auto Show North American International Auto Show SAE International 1 Non-U.S. based parent company that owns subsidiaries headquartered in U.S. 2 Company still exists but is no longer in the automotive manufacturing business " Big 3 " in bold Category Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Twentieth_Century_Motor_Car_Corporation&oldid=1310762493 " Categories : Defunct motor vehicle manufacturers of the United States Three-wheeled motor vehicles Fraud in the United States Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing cleanup from August 2020 All pages needing cleanup Cleanup tagged articles with a reason field from August 2020 Wikipedia pages needing cleanup from August 2020