https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Network

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia US highway network National Network marker as defined in the MUTCD . The National Network (or National Truck Network ) is a network of approved state highways and interstates for commercial truck drivers in the United States . The Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 authorized the establishment of a national network of highways designated for use by large trucks . On these highways, Federal width and length limits apply. The National Network (NN) includes almost all of the Interstate Highway System and other, specified non-Interstate highways. The network comprises more than 200,000 miles (320,000 km) of highways. [ 1 ] Definition [ edit ] A map of the National Network §658.9 National Network Criteria [ 2 ] The National Network listed in the appendix to this part is available for use by commercial motor vehicles of the dimensions and configurations described in §658.13 and §658.15. For those States with detailed lists of individual routes in the appendix, the routes have been designated on the basis of their general adherence to the following criteria. The route is a geometrically typical component of the Federal-Aid Primary System, serving to link principal cities and densely developed portions of the States. The route is a high volume route utilized extensively by large vehicles for interstate commerce. The route does not have any restrictions precluding use by conventional combination vehicles. The route has adequate geometrics to support safe operations, considering sight distance, severity and length of grades , pavement width, horizontal curvature , shoulder width, bridge clearances and load limits, traffic volumes and vehicle mix, and intersection geometry. The route consists of lanes designed to be a width of 12 feet (3.66 m) or more or is otherwise consistent with highway safety. The route does not have any unusual characteristics causing current or anticipated safety problems. The National Network was most recently defined by the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 . [ 3 ] Information on these routes are taken from § 658 Appendix A. [ 4 ] Some states such as Indiana , Arkansas , and Ohio allow truck traffic on all numbered state or U.S. highways. Other states, such as New York and California , have a specially defined set of highways which are recommended for trucks. The law allows for "reasonable access" to and from the NN for terminals, deliveries, trucks stops, repairs, and other reasons. The NN is recommended for through truck traffic (e.g. traffic that is passing through the area), and trucks are allowed to operate on truck-restricted roads if they have no other means of access to their destination. See also [ edit ] Trucking industry in the United States Truck driver Long combination vehicle References [ edit ] ^ "Our Nation's Highways: 2008 Figure 1-4. National Truck Network" . U.S. Department of Transportation , Federal Highway Administration . Retrieved 2009-03-08 . ^ "§658.9 National Network Criteria" . Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration . Archived from the original on 2009-04-19 . Retrieved 2009-03-09 . ^ "Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991" . National Transportation Library . Retrieved 2009-03-09 . ^ "Part 658: Size and Weight, Route Designations — Length, Width and Weight Limitations" . Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration . Archived from the original on 2009-04-19 . Retrieved 2009-03-23 . v t e Trucking industry in the United States Regulated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Economy of the United States Regulations Commercial driver's license Electronic on-board recorder Federal Bridge Gross Weight Formula Hours of service International Registration Plan Motor Carrier Act of 1980 Motor carrier safety rating National Network Manufacturers Truck manufacturers AM General American LaFrance Autocar Bering Bremach Brockway BYD Auto Caterpillar Inc. Chase Chevrolet CCC CNH Industrial Dart Diamond Reo Diamond T Reo Dina Dodge Freightliner Ford GMC Hayes Fuso Hino Hyundai Motor America Hyzon International Isuzu Marmon-Herrington Mercedes-Benz Moreland Mack Nissan Oshkosh Paccar Kenworth Peterbilt Ram Trucks Selden Schacht Shyft Group Smith Spartan Sterling Tesla Tiger Truck Toyota Traffic UD Trucks VIA Volvo Ward LaFrance Western Star White Workhorse Group Engine manufacturers Caterpillar Inc. Cummins Detroit Diesel Mack MaxxForce Mercedes-Benz Paccar Volvo Trailer manufacturers Daseke Fontaine Fruehauf Great Dane Hyundai Translead Lufkin Trailers Utility Trailer Manufacturing Company Vanguard Wabash National Wilson Motor carriers Truckload carriers Amazon Freight Averitt Express C. R. England Celadon CFI Covenant Crete CRST FFE Transportation Heartland Express J. B. Hunt Knight-Swift Landstar System Marten Transport PAM Transport Patriot Transportation Prime Inc. Roehl Transport Schneider Swift U.S. Xpress Werner Western Express Less than truckload (LTL) ABF Amazon Freight Averitt Express Con-way Freight Consolidated Freightways Estes Express Lines FedEx New England Motor Freight Old Dominion Freight Line R+L Carriers Saia Southeastern TForce Freight XPO, Inc. Yellow Corporation Third-party logistics providers Access America Transport Amazon Freight American Lamprecht Transport C.H. Robinson Freightquote CaseStack Ryder Total Quality Logistics Trailer Bridge Trucker Path XPO, Inc. National parcel carriers DHL FedEx UPS United States Postal Service Regional parcel carriers GLS LSO OnTrac (LaserShip) Moving companies Allied Atlas Bekins Gentle Giant Moving Company Global Interstate Mayflower National North American PODS Two Men and a Truck United Wheaton Truck stops BETO Junction Bowlin Travel Centers Dixie Travel Plaza Iowa 80 Love's Pilot Flying J Road Ranger Roady's TravelCenters of America Town Pump People Frederick W. Smith Iyman Faris J. Harwood Cochrane Jimmy Hoffa John Hunt Keith Jesperson Kelly Reno Reginald Denny Organizations American Moving & Storage Association American Trucking Associations DAT Solutions (Dial-A-Truck) International Brotherhood of Teamsters National Motor Freight Classification National Motor Freight Traffic Association National Private Truck Council SmartWay Transport Partnership Glossary of the American trucking industry Popular culture Film Black Dog Breakdown Breaker! Breaker! Convoy Duel F.I.S.T. High-Ballin' Joy Ride Maximum Overdrive Over The Top Smokey & the Bandit They Drive by Night The Gang's All Here The Great Smokey Roadblock Trucker White Line Fever Hoffa Television American Loggers American Trucker B. J. and the Bear Ice Road Truckers Movin' On Trick My Truck Music A Tombstone Every Mile Big Wheels in the Moonlight Bonnie Jean (Little Sister) Convoy Drivin' My Life Away East Bound and Down Eighteen Wheels and a Dozen Roses Giddyup Go Girl on the Billboard Movin' On Papa Loved Mama Phantom 309 Roll On Big Mama Roll On (Eighteen Wheeler) Six Days on the Road Teddy Bear The White Knight Radio Dale Sommers Red Eye ( Bill Mack ) Road Dog Trucking ( Dave Nemo ) Video games 18 Wheeler: American Pro Trucker 18 Wheels of Steel American Truck Simulator Rig 'n' Roll Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing Other Citizens band radio The Rolling Memorial Note: Defunct companies are shown in italics Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Network&oldid=1238637710 " Categories : Trucking industry in the United States Traffic law Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata