https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMMT

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from SMMT ) This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages ) This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject , potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral . Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent sources . ( January 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view . Please discuss further on the talk page . ( January 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) UK automotive industry association Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Abbreviation SMMT Formation 1902 Legal status Not for profit company Purpose Employer organisation for the UK motor trade Location London Region served United Kingdom Membership UK automotive companies and motoring organisations Chief Executive Mike Hawes, [ 1 ] Main organ SMMT Executive (President – Mick Flanagan, Vice President, Adient) [ 2 ] Affiliations Association des Constructeurs Européens d'Automobiles (ACEA – European Automobile Manufacturers Association ) Website www.smmt.co.uk The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders ( SMMT ) is the trade association for the United Kingdom motor industry . Its role is to "promote the interests of the UK automotive industry at home and abroad." History [ edit ] SMMT was founded by Frederick Richard Simms on 16 July 1902. In January 1959 it moved to Forbes House, Belgravia , and in August 2011 it moved into its current offices at 71 Great Peter Street, London. [ 3 ] Motor Show [ edit ] One of its early functions was holding motor shows, the earliest of which was at Crystal Palace in January 1903 (now known as the British International Motor Show ). The Motor Industry Research Association (MIRA) was formed in 1946. In 1978, the Motor Show moved to the National Exhibition Centre . In 2006, the Motor Show returned to London at ExCel in 2006. [ 3 ] Vehicle registrations [ edit ] Main article: Vehicle registration plates of the United Kingdom In July 1972 it started the Motor Vehicle Registration Information System (MVRIS), which works on behalf of the government to collate data about new registrations of vehicles. [ 3 ] Data is obtained from vehicle manufacturers and/or importers and the Driver & Vehicle Licensing Agency . Figures are released on the fourth working day of every month and detailed analysis is available for purchase. [ 4 ] Consumer protection [ edit ] The Motor Industry Code of Practice for New Cars was launched in 2004, which provides trading standards for consumers, via automotive traders who are registered with the Motor Codes code of practice. The UK car industry has had a reputation of a minority of garages and repair companies giving consumers a less-than-satisfactory level of performance, with (generally) female consumers being cynically targeted for excessive costs for maintaining their cars. Call-out charges for repairs and roadside breakdowns have been known to be uncompetitively high. The Motor Industry Code of Practice for Service and Repair was launched in August 2008 to correct any cowboy practices of financial manipulation. More than 4,000 garages across the UK now are registered with this scheme. It was claimed by the National Consumer Council that substandard repair work by UK garages was costing consumers around £4 billion a year. [ 5 ] Activities [ edit ] The organisation "promotes the interests of the UK automotive industry at home and abroad" for a sector that produced 1.6 million vehicles – including cars and commercial vehicles – and 2.71 million engines in the UK (2018) and employs a UK workforce of more than 823,000. [ 6 ] The organisation advocates and lobbies on behalf of the sector, [ 7 ] in particular for vehicle and component manufacturers, and the motor retail sector. The SMMT monitors and reports on the UK's registrations and production figures for cars and LCVs. Each May, the organisation holds the SMMT Test Day for invited motoring journalists at Millbrook Proving Ground to test drive and review the latest new models from vehicle manufacturers. Lobbying [ edit ] Scientists on the Climate Change Committee advised a total ban of petrol and diesel engine sales including for hybrids by 2032 to meet the UK government's decarbonisation goals. The SMMT lobbied the government to delay this ban. The resulting delay was a "significant victory for the car industry" according to The Guardian . [ 8 ] Structure [ edit ] Aside from the Secretariat, who runs the organisation daily with around 80 staff in 13 departments, and the Executive, there are many working groups, technical committees for trade sectors, and research and marketing topics in the car industry. The future of the British automotive industry is facing many technical challenges with strict EU emission legislation , and the introduction of electric and fuel cell vehicles . See also [ edit ] Automobile safety Euro NCAP Good Garage Scheme Transport Research Laboratory Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents References [ edit ] ^ "Chief Executive" . Retrieved 17 November 2015 . ^ "SMMT announces new President" . 29 November 2023. ^ a b c "SMMT history" . SMMT . Retrieved 17 November 2015 . ^ "MVRIS New Vehicle Registrations UK" . SMMT . Retrieved 17 November 2015 . ^ Motor Codes ^ "SMMT Facts" . SMMT . Retrieved 31 May 2019 . ^ Williams, David (11 March 2010). "Budget 2010 boost for car industry?" . The Daily Telegraph . London . Retrieved 30 March 2010 . ^ "Car industry lobbied UK government to delay ban on petrol and diesel cars" . The Guardian . 15 March 2021. External links [ edit ] Official website Motor Codes Car Workshop in Dubai SMMT Industry Forum Ltd Europe-wide motor manufacturer organisations Video clips [ edit ] Low carbon buses at Energy Live News Vince Cable and low carbon vehicles v t e Automotive industry in the United Kingdom Manufacturing in the United Kingdom Economy of the United Kingdom Companies and marques Commercial vehicle producers Current Alexander Dennis Plaxton BEDEO Dennis Eagle JCB LEVC Leyland Trucks Mellor Bus Multidrive Vehicles Optare REE Automotive Wrightbus Former AEC Albion Alternative Chassis Engineering Arrival Aveling-Barford AWD Bedford Bristol British United Traction Carlyle Works Charles H Roe Clough, Smith Commer Crossley Daimler Dennis Duple East Lancashire Eastern ERF Foden Ford Southampton Guy Hallford IBC Vehicles Jensen Karrier LDV Leyland Bus Leyland DAF Leyland Motors London Taxi Company Longwell Green Marshall Maudslay Metro Cammell Weymann Modec Morrison-Electricar Northern Counties Park Royal Reeve Burgess Scammell Seddon Atkinson Sentinel Shelvoke & Drewry Smith EV Stevens Straker-Squire Sunbeam Thornycroft Tilling-Stevens Vulcan Wadham Stringer Wales & Edwards Walter Alexander Willowbrook Motorsport Advanced Engine Research Alpine F1 Team AMR GP Limited Arena Motorsport Carlin Chevron Cars Cosworth Driftworks Engine Developments Ford World Rally Team Fortec Gibson Technology Hewland Kahn Design Ilmor Lola Cars McLaren Mercedes AMG High Performance Powertrains Mercedes AMG M-Sport Munchi's Prodrive Radical Red Bull Racing Rodin Motorsport RML Group Roger Dowson Engineering Sumo Power Team Dynamics Triple Eight Racing Van Diemen Williams Wirth Xtrac Passenger car producers Current Ariel Aston Martin Lagonda Volkswagen Group Bentley Crewe plant BMW Mini Oxford plant Swindon plant Rolls-Royce Goodwood plant Briggs Caterham David Brown Ginetta Jaguar Land Rover Jaguar Land Rover Castle Bromwich plant Gaydon Centre Halewood plant Solihull plant Whitley Engineering Centre Geely Lotus McLaren McLaren Technology Centre SAIC Motor UK MG Eco Concept Morgan Nissan UK Noble Overfinch Radical Spyker Toyota UK TVR Vauxhall Ellesmere Port Westfield Zenos Kit cars Caterham Davrian GKD Marc Nordon Racing Onyx Quantum Sylva Ultima Sports Westfield Former Abbey (automobile) Allard Alvis Armstrong Siddeley Ascari Austin Austin-Healey Belsize Bond Brabham Automotive Bristol BMC BMH British Leyland Caparo Clément-Talbot Daimler Eagle Cars Electric Car Corporation Fenix Ford Frazer Nash Gilbern GTM Honda JBA Motors Jensen Jowett Lanchester Lightning Lister Marcos Engineering Melling MG Rover MG Longbridge plant Morris Peel Engineering Reliant Riley Rootes Ryton plant Rover Company Rover Group Standard Sunbeam Sunbeam-Talbot Triumph Trojan Wolseley Suppliers and consultancies Current Cosworth Cummins UK Dunlop Tyres GKN GKN Driveline Grayson Thermal Systems Horse Powertrain Johnson Matthey Kahn Design Lotus Engineering Millbrook MIRA Perkins Engines Pilkington Quaife Ricardo Tickford Transport Research Laboratory Unipart WMG Wipac Zytek Automotive Former Abbey Panels Caparo Vehicle Technologies Dunlop Rubber Ferodo Gardner Hardy Spicer Henry Meadows Laycock Engineering Lucas Industries LucasVarity Tata Steel Europe Tomkins White and Poppe Dealerships Arnold Clark Carcraft Ford Retail Group Group 1 Automotive Inchcape Jardine JCT600 Lookers H.R. Owen Jack Barclay Bentley Perrys Robins & Day Stoneacre Sytner Vertu Other services ATS Euromaster Autoglass Auto Windscreens British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association Constellation Automotive Group Green Flag Halfords Autocentre Halfords HiQ (tyres) Kwik Fit LeasePlan Lex Autolease Millbrook Proving Ground National Tyres and Autocare Pinewood Technologies RAC The AA We Buy Any Car Government and regulatory bodies Automotive Council UK Department for Transport Driver & Vehicle Licensing Agency Driving Standards Agency Vehicle Certification Agency Vehicle & Operator Services Agency Related topics AM Magazine Autocar Autosport Auto Trader Auto Express Buses Car Classic & Sports Car Coach & Bus Week Commercial Motor Evo Fast Car Fifth Gear Institute of Advanced Motorists Motor Sport Octane Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Top Gear (magazine) Top Gear (TV series) What Car? Category Commons Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF National United States Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Society_of_Motor_Manufacturers_and_Traders&oldid=1309569983 " Categories : 1902 establishments in England Automobile associations in the United Kingdom Automotive industry in the United Kingdom Motor trade associations Non-profit organisations based in the United Kingdom Organisations based in the City of Westminster Organizations established in 1902 Trade associations based in the United Kingdom Hidden categories: Articles lacking reliable references from January 2020 All articles lacking reliable references Wikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from January 2020 Articles with multiple maintenance issues Use dmy dates from December 2016 Use British English from December 2016 All Wikipedia articles written in British English Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Pages using infobox mapframe with missing coordinates