https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TEFC_motor

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Motor in an enclosure shielding it from outside air A totally enclosed fan-cooled motor ( TEFC motor ) is a type of industrial electric motor with an enclosure that does not permit outside air to freely circulate through the interior of the motor. [ 1 ] An external fan blows outside air over the frame of the motor to cool it. This motor is arguably the most commonly used motor in ordinary industrial environments. TEFC enclosed motors usually cost more than open motors, but offer increased protection against weather, dirt, and moisture. The weight-to-power ratio of the TEFC motor is higher than the one exhibited by the designs where the external air is allowed access to internal parts. This ratio did not improve with time and new materials either, [ 2 ] so TEFC motors are preferred for ratings up to 500 hp (375 kW ) and available with ratings up to 1000 hp (750 kW). [ 3 ] TEFC motors are constructed with a small fan on the rear shaft of the motor, covered by a housing. This fan forces air over the motor frame fins, and cools the motor. The enclosure is "Totally Enclosed". This  means that the motor is dust tight, and has a moderate water seal as well. With typical IP ratings of 44/54, [ 4 ] TEFC motors are not secure against high pressure water nor submersible. They are also not explosion proof without additional modifications. TEFC motors can be compared to the ODP ( Open Drip Proof , also DPG , Drip Proof Guarded ) motor design, which has ventilation openings which are guarded to prevent falling water from entering the motor windings. The ODP motors are less environmentally protected (IP 22). [ 4 ] For the cases where the cooling performance of TEFC motor is not sufficient, modification with heat exchangers are available, with the motor still totally enclosed: [ 4 ] Totally enclosed air-to-air cooled ( TEAAC ): the motor is cooled by the circulating  internal air passing through a heat exchanger, which in turn is cooled by the external air; Totally enclosed water-air cooled ( TEWAC ): the motor is used when the cooling water is available and includes a air-to-water heat exchanger. Applications and types [ edit ] "General Purpose" Fractional Horse Power Motors - Often made of rolled steel, these are multi-purpose motors suitable for a diverse range of industrial applications, and are usually offered in power ranges from 0.33–2 horsepower (0.25–1.49 kW). Farm Duty Motors – These high torque and robustly designed motors are a good choice for many farm applications, being totally enclosed and protected from the environment. "Wash Down" Motors – These motors are designed to withstand regular washing, such as found in a food processing facility. Rock Crusher Motors – These motors are an excellent choice for hammermills , pellet mills , and chippers for the biomass industry. Oil Well Pump Motors – Severe Duty Motors – Pool Pump Motors –   One of the quietest motor pump on the market, due to its permanent magnet motor and TEFC design References [ edit ] ^ "Basics of AC Motors" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 January 2014. ^ Parasiliti & Bertoldi 2012 , p. 203. ^ Khan, Khan & Ahmed 2018 , p. 204. ^ a b c Khan, Khan & Ahmed 2018 , p. 205. Sources [ edit ] Khan, Shoaib; Khan, Sheeba; Ahmed, Ghariani (2018-10-03). "9.3.10 Enclosures" . Industrial Power Systems . CRC Press. pp. 204– 205. ISBN 978-1-4200-1539-3 . Retrieved 2025-08-28 . Parasiliti, Francesco; Bertoldi, Paolo (2012-12-06). Energy Efficiency in Motor Driven Systems . Springer Science & Business Media. ISBN 978-3-642-55475-9 . Retrieved 2025-08-28 . v t e Electric machines AC - Alternating current DC - Direct current PM - Permanent magnet Components Rotor Stator Winding Armature Field coil Damper winding Slip ring Commutator Brush Generators AC generator Alternator Flux switching alternator Linear alternator PM synchronous generator Magneto Induction generator Doubly fed induction generator Single-phase generator DC generator Dynamo Homopolar generator Motors AC motor Induction motor Shaded-pole motor Dahlander pole changing motor Wound rotor motor Linear induction motor Doubly fed electric machine Synchronous motor Repulsion motor DC motor Brushed DC electric motor Brushless DC electric motor Stepper motor Homopolar motor Universal motor Reluctance motor Switched reluctance motor Synchronous reluctance motor Axial flux motor Radial flux motor PM motor Dual-rotor motor Linear motor Ball bearing motor Electrostatic motor Piezoelectric motor Ultrasonic motor Servomotor Traction motor TEFC motor Motor controllers and other accessories AC-to-AC converter Cycloconverter Amplidyne Drives Variable-frequency drive Direct torque control Vector control Metadyne Motor soft starter Ward Leonard control Braking chopper DC injection brake module History, education, recreational use Timeline of the electric motor Barlow's wheel Lynch motor Mendocino motor Mouse mill motor Experimental, futuristic Coilgun Railgun Superconducting machine Related topics Blocked-rotor test Circle diagram Coil winding technology Electromagnetism Open-circuit test Open-loop controller Power-to-weight ratio Two-phase system Inchworm motor Starter Voltage controller People Arago Barlow Botto Davenport Davidson Dolivo-Dobrovolsky Faraday Ferraris Gramme Henry Jacobi Jedlik Lenz Maxwell Ørsted Park Pacinotti Pixii Saxton Siemens Sprague Steinmetz Sturgeon Tesla This industry -related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=TEFC_motor&oldid=1308224125 " Categories : Electric motors Industry stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All stub articles