https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69851602/alpine-considering-american-market

Alpine Alpine is still looking at entering the American car market, according to an interview with the U.K. outlet Auto Express . The automaker previously announced plans to enter the United States by 2027, though those plans were derailed by tariffs implemented earlier this year. According to Alpine CEO Philippe Krief, the company could bring the upcoming A110 EV along with an SUV to compete against the Porsche Cayenne EV . The French sports-car manufacturer Alpine has been eyeing an entrance to the American car market since 2023. While tariffs implemented by the Trump administration earlier this year pushed back those plans, the automaker won't be swayed. In an interview with Auto Express , Alpine CEO Philippe Krief doubled down on the brand's plans. Charlie Magee | Car and Driver According to Krief, the move would be spearheaded by the upcoming A110 electric sports car, though a larger performance SUV could be in the pipeline as well. "We need to go to the U.S. with A110 because this is the heart of Alpine," Krief told the outlet. For Sale Near You See all results for 2024 Alpine A110 for sale near 93446 In the same interview, Krief cautioned that the A110 alone wouldn't be enough to support the brand in the United States, saying, "But in the U.S., maybe, it won’t be enough for dealers and our partners to sell." While the brand initially thought about developing a large SUV for the American market, Krief is also worried about selling a car too far outside the DNA of the brand. Currently, the largest Alpine on sale is the A390. It's a compact electric crossover that's slightly smaller than the Porsche Macan EV in just about every dimension. While there's definitely demand for compact electric crossovers in the U.S., that section of the market tends to skew toward the less expensive end than Alpine's offerings. Instead, the French automaker may build a larger EV as a competitor to the Porsche Cayenne EV, as the brand thinks that the bigger footprint will make it a better companion to the A110 in American showrooms. Unfortunately, Krief wasn't clear on any updated timelines for the brand's planned entrance to the American market. When Alpine announced its intentions in 2023, it planned for a 2027 launch, though that date is quickly approaching with no official announcements made. So, while Alpine is still weighing the risks versus the rewards of entering the U.S. market, that announcement remains as hypothetical as the brand's larger EV SUV. Alpine's Timeline Alpine Confirms U.S. Expansion, New EV Sports Cars Alpine Teases A390 Electric SUV Before May Reveal Alpine A390 Concept Will Likely Reach U.S. By 2027 ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Jack Fitzgerald Associate News Editor Jack Fitzgerald’s love for cars stems from his as yet unshakable addiction to Formula 1. After a brief stint as a detailer for a local dealership group in college, he knew he needed a more permanent way to drive all the new cars he couldn’t afford and decided to pursue a career in auto writing. By hounding his college professors at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, he was able to travel Wisconsin seeking out stories in the auto world before landing his dream job at Car and Driver . His new goal is to delay the inevitable demise of his 2010 Volkswagen Golf.