https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slide_hammer

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Diagram of the usage of a slide hammer A slide hammer attached to the inside of a rear wheel bearing Auto technician using a slide hammer to remove the hub on a car A slide hammer is a tool that attaches to an object needing to be pulled and transmits an impact force to the object without striking the object itself. Slide hammers typically consist of a long metal shaft with an attachment point at one end, a heavy weight that can slide along the shaft , and a stop for the weight to impact on the end opposite the attachment point. [ 1 ] The inertia of the weight is thus transferred to the shaft, pulling the attached end in the direction the weight had been moving. Slide hammers can be attached to objects in multiple ways including screw threads , hooks , and others. [ 2 ] Slide hammers are typically used in automotive repair to pull dents, remove bearings or other parts, and when an object needs to be struck from an inaccessible side. [ 3 ] Car thieves have used them by attaching a screw to the end; the screw is then twisted into the ignition lock, allowing the whole assembly to be pulled out and the ignition wires to be accessed. [ 4 ] References [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Slide hammers . ^ "Encyclopedia of Alternative Energy" . ^ Duffy, James (2012). Auto Body Repair Technology . Cengage Learning. p. 114. ISBN 978-1-133-70285-6 . ^ Schultz, Mort (September 1974). "Your summer dents: How to get them out". Popular Mechanics . ^ Michael L. Birzer; Cliff Roberson (2011). Introduction to Criminal Investigation . Taylor & Francis. p. 176. ISBN 9781439897485 . v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking This tool article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Slide_hammer&oldid=1280344261 " Categories : Hammers Hand tools Tool stubs Hidden categories: Commons category link is on Wikidata All stub articles