https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wheelspin

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of wheel behavior For other uses, see Wheelslip (disambiguation) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Wheelspin" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2006 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A wheelspin occurs when the force delivered to the tire tread exceeds that of available tread-to-surface friction and one or more tires lose traction . This leads the wheels to "spin" and causes the driver to lose control over the tires that no longer have grip on the road surface. Wheelspin can also be done intentionally such as in drifting or doing a burnout . [ 1 ] Applications [ edit ] Differentials [ edit ] Standard differentials (also referred to as "open" differentials) always apply equal torque to each wheel. In low traction situations, the total torque delivered to each wheel is limited to the torque that is required to make the wheel with the least traction slip. During a turn, the weight of the vehicle shifts away from the inner radius and to the outer radius, therefore the inner drive-wheel will often lose traction on hard cornering, and especially when accelerating through a curve. [ citation needed ] Locking differentials and limited slip differentials modify the manner in which torque is distributed to the wheels to reduce wheelspin and improve traction in situations where it is limited. [ 2 ] Wheels can also lose traction when surface conditions reduce available traction such as on snow and ice. As an open differential delivers only enough torque to cause the "weakest" wheel to spin, if one drive wheel is stationary on a low traction surface (mud, ice, etc.), the deliverable torque is limited to the traction available on it. Oversteer [ edit ] Oversteer is typically the result of wheelspin, causing the vehicle to lose traction and turn too sharp through a turn. Oversteer can be caused in two different ways, power oversteer and lift-off oversteer. [ 3 ] Oversteer can be performed either intentionally or accidentally through these two methods and if the driver doesn't know what they are doing then it could result in an accident. Oversteer is a common trait of rear-wheel drive cars and can also occur in all-wheel drive cars. It can be performed in front-wheel drive cars as well, but it is not as common as they tend to understeer . Power oversteer [ edit ] Power oversteer is the process of applying power through the throttle pedal while turning to break the traction forces on the driving wheels. Doing this causes the vehicle to slide, and is also known as a powerslide, and the vehicles movement is primarily based on the non-driving wheels (usually the steering wheels). Lift-off oversteer [ edit ] Wheelspin can also occur when changing gears while the vehicle is in motion, as the inertia of the engine and flywheel rotating at a higher rate than the next highest gear tries to bring the input shaft of the transmission to the same speed. This is known commonly as lift-off oversteer . Understeer [ edit ] Understeer is also a result of wheelspin and traction loss. It results in a vehicle not being able to turn enough when driving through a curve and causes the vehicle to continue forwards instead of turning in the curve. It is caused by using too much power into a turn causing the tires to slide sideways into the curve, preventing the vehicle from turning. Understeer is the easiest form of wheelspin to correct and can usually be done by lifting off of the throttle. Similar terms [ edit ] In railway engineering, the term wheelslip is used as a synonym for wheelspin. Prevention [ edit ] Traction control [ edit ] Traction control is an electronic system installed in most modern automobiles since 1985. It monitors individual wheel speeds through the Anti-lock Brake System (ABS) or wheel speed sensors and controls engine inputs to maintain stability and traction to the vehicles wheels. When the traction control system notices wheelspin on any of the wheels it limits the fuel provided through the onboard engine management system and controls the speed of the vehicle to prevent excessive wheelspin. [ 4 ] Driving techniques [ edit ] There are several driving techniques that you can follow to prevent wheelspin: [ 5 ] [ 6 ] Be easy on the throttle and make smooth inputs Do not enter turns too fast, take it slow Do not make aggressive braking inputs in the turn Do not lift off of the throttle mid-turn Do not shift gears in the turn, select your gear before you enter Make smooth steering inputs to prevent a large weight shift References [ edit ] ^ Bentley (1998 , p. 89) ^ Alexander & Hoyt (1986 , p. 30, Snow fooling around) ^ Cottingham, Darren (2014-10-13). "Oversteer, understeer, wheelspin and other skids explained" . Driving Tests Resources . Retrieved 2022-07-11 . ^ Glover, Douglas (August 9, 1995). "Method of and apparatus for controlling wheel spin - MyScience..." MyScienceWork . Retrieved 2022-07-11 . ^ "Oversteer - what is it, and how to control it" . Drivingfast.net . 2018-07-10 . Retrieved 2022-07-11 . ^ Collins, Ben (2014). How to Drive: The Ultimate Guide - From the Man Who Was the Stig . London. ISBN 978-1-4472-7283-0 . OCLC 892706704 . {{ cite book }} :  CS1 maint: location missing publisher ( link ) [ page needed ] Bibliography [ edit ] Alexander, Don; Hoyt, Wade (June 1986). "Popular Mechanics" . Popular Mechanics Magazine . Vol. 163, no. 6. Hearst Magazines. ISSN 0032-4558 – via Google Books. Bentley, Ross (13 August 1998). Speed Secrets: Professional Race Driving Techniques . Motorbooks. ISBN 9781610600019 – via Google Books. See also [ edit ] Burnout (vehicle) Drifting (motorsport) This article about an automotive technology is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wheelspin&oldid=1254772745 " Categories : Driving techniques Automotive technology stubs Hidden categories: CS1 maint: location missing publisher Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from November 2024 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from December 2006 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2021 All stub articles