https://www.thedrive.com/authors/andrew-p-collins

About As Executive Editor, Andrew touches everything on the site from daily news coverage to feature stories, sponsored content, product reviews, road testing vehicles, ecommerce, and more. He’s held pretty much every role there is to have at an automotive news site and has been with The Drive’s publisher Recurrent since 2020. Andrew’s a lifetime gearhead and longtime writer with a particularly strong penchant for road trips, off-road adventures, and archaic vehicles. His passions outside of the automotive world include skiing, obsolete video games, and his dog Bramble who occationally helps review cars. Experience Andrew's first automotive bylines were in his middle school newspaper, where he wrote about cars in movies. He established a car column in his college paper as well but took a circuitous route to professional automotive journalism from there. He's had jobs as an off-road tour guide, travel blogger, ski instructor, mascot, and myrid other things before a stint in automotive finance and car dealer logistics. In 2013 he landed a part-time gig at the automotive news site Jalopnik, rising from intern to contributor to editor to road test editor to running his own sub-site about trucks and off-roading. Andrew's competited in off-road racing as a navigator at major events including the Baja 1000, and led off-road expeditions on three continents. He's also tuned cars for, and competed in, hillclimb, ice racing, quarter-mile drags, autocross, rallycross, and track days. Andrew joined Recurrent in 2020 to run Car Bibles, a deep library of DIY tips and service journalism. He officially joined The Drive's masthead in 2022 when Car Bibles was rolled under The Drive's umbrella. Education BA, Anthropology University of Vermont 2010 Notable Works Inside the Dakar Rally: Field Notes From the World’s Most Extreme Off-Road Race The Drive The Portal-Axle Ineos Grenadier Laughed at Every Obstacle I Pointed It at in Iceland The Drive Dyno-Tuning My Nearly-Stock Honda Civic Was Totally Worth It The Drive Every Little Off-Road Feature On the Toyota Tacoma Trailhunter, Reviewed The Drive 2025 Audi RS6 Review: Hauling Ass, Hauling Stuff The Drive Fun Fact Andrew spent a winter skiing in a pachyderm costume as the official mascot of Mammoth Mountain, California.