https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whippletree_(mechanism)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Mechanism to distribute force evenly through linkages For the tree historically called a whipple-tree, see Cornus . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Whippletree" mechanism – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( November 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A set of whippletrees or leader-bars for the two leaders of a four-horse team A whippletree , or whiffletree , [ 1 ] [ 2 ] is a mechanism to distribute force evenly through linkages . It is also referred to as an equalizer , leader bar , or double tree . It consists of a bar pivoted at or near the centre, with force applied from one direction to the pivot and from the other direction to the tips. Several whippletrees may be used in series to distribute the force further, such as to simulate pressure over an area as when applying loading to test airplane wings. Whippletrees may be used either in compression or tension . They were also used for subtraction and addition calculations in mechanical computers. Tension whippletrees are used in artful hung mobiles, such as those by artist Alexander Calder . Draught animals [ edit ] A diagram and photograph of a set of 5 whippletrees for a three-animal team Whippletrees are used in tension to distribute forces from a point load to the traces of draught animals (the traces are the chains or straps on each side of the harness, on which the animal pulls). For these, the whippletree consists of a loose horizontal bar between the draught animal and its load. The centre of the bar is connected to the load, and the traces attach to its ends. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Whippletrees are used especially when pulling a dragged load such as a plough , harrow , log or canal boat or for pulling a vehicle (by the leaders in a team with more than one row of animals). A swingletree , or singletree , is a special kind of whippletree used for a horse-drawn vehicle . The term swingletree is sometimes used for draught whippletrees. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] A whippletree balances the pull from each side of the animal, preventing the load from tugging alternately on each side. It also keeps a point load from pulling the traces in onto the sides of the animal. If several animals are used abreast, further whippletrees may be used behind the first. Thus, with two animals, each has its own whippletree, and a further one balances the loads from their two whippletrees—an arrangement sometimes known as a double-tree , or for the leaders in a larger team, leader-bars . With three or more animals abreast, even more whippletrees are needed; some may be made asymmetrical to balance odd numbers of animals. Multiple whippletrees balance the pulls from the different animals, ensuring that each takes an equal share of the work. Other examples [ edit ] Whippletrees are also used in modern agriculture—for example, to link several ganged agricultural implements such as harrows , mowers or rollers to a tractor . This combines several small loads into a single load at the tractor hitch (the reverse of the use for draught animals). A standard automobile windscreen wiper uses whippletrees in compression to distribute the force of the wiper arm evenly across the blade. A series of whippletrees is used in compression in a standard windshield wiper to distribute the point force of the sprung wiper arm evenly along the wiper blade. Some designs for large telescopes use whippletrees [ 3 ] to support the optical elements. The tree provides distributed mechanical support, reducing localised mechanical deflections, which in turn reduces optical distortion. [ 4 ] Unlike the applications described above, which are two-dimensional, the whippletrees in telescope mirror support cells are three-dimensional designs, [ 5 ] since the tree must support multiple points over an area. Linkage-type mechanical analog computers use whippletree linkages to add and subtract quantities represented by straight-line motions. [ 6 ] The illustration here of whippletrees for a three-animal team is very similar to a group of linkage adders and subtracters: "load" is the equivalent of the output sum/difference of the individual inputs. Inside the computer, cylinders on the knob shafts have thin metal tapes wrapped around them to convert rotary to linear motion. One widely used application was in the IBM Selectric typewriter (and the IBM 2741 derived from it), where the linkages summed binary mechanical inputs to rotate and tilt the type ball. This type of computing method was also used for naval gunnery , such as the Mark 56 Gun Fire Control System and sonar fire-control systems . See also [ edit ] Boat trailer , which uses this mechanism to evenly distribute force across the hull of the boats it carries. Differential (mechanical device) , which does for torque what each layer of a whippletree does for force. Gresley conjugated valve gear Mobile (sculpture) , similar principles applied in art. Paraglider wing , in which a load is distributed by multiple strings, but without rigid elements. PLate OPtimizer , CAD program for distribution of whippletree support elements in telescope mirror cell design Proteus (WAM-V) , catamaran with whippletree suspension Rocker-bogie , the whippletree applied to Mars rover suspension. Swingletree References [ edit ] ^ a b c Smith, D.J.M. (1988). A Dictionary of Horse Drawn Vehicles . J. A. Allen & Co. Ltd. pp. 187– 9. ISBN 0851314686 . OL 11597864M . ^ a b c Walrond, Sallie (1979). The Encyclopaedia of Driving . Country Life Books. p. 261,293,295. ISBN 0600331822 . OL 4175648M . ^ A Short History of Armagh Observatory . ^ see photo of first mirror cell to use whippletree levers . ^ Mechanical design of the 110 cm Cruxis Telescope Mirror and mirror support cell . ^ Svoboda, Antonín, Computing Mechanisms and Linkages , M.I.T. Radiation Laboratory Series, New York, 1948, McGraw-Hill Book Company (also New York, Dover Publications, 1965) Section 2-6, Fig 2-12, p 37. External links [ edit ] Photo of whippletree for draught horses by Beig Alert on Flickr (Note: this photo shows three muddled sets of whippletrees: one single, one double and one triple.) Photo InTheHead of a windshield wiper's whippletree by Barefoot on Flickr Major telescopes from Lord Rosse to about 1980 Support of PILOT primary mirror by Peter Gillingham 2 March 2007 [ dead link ] Mirror Edge Support Calculator Images of mechanical computer. v t e Horse-drawn vehicles and carriages Four-wheeled carriages and coaches Araba Barouche Berlin Brake Britzka Brougham Buckboard Buggy Calash Cariole Carryall Charabanc ‡ Chariot coach Clarence Coach ‡ Concord coach ‡ Coupé Diligence ‡ Drag Droshky Fiacre ‡ Fly Four-in-hand Gharry ‡ Hackney coach ‡ Hearse Herdic Horsebus/Omnibus ‡ Horsecar ‡ Jingle Karozzin Kibitka Landau Long car Mail coach ‡ Marathon carriage Mylord Park Drag Phaeton Post chaise Road Coach Rockaway Runabout (carriage) Sociable Spider phaeton Stagecoach ‡ Stage wagon ‡ State coach Gilded Surrey Tarantass Victoria Vis-à-vis Wagonette Two-wheeled carriages and carts Bandy Cabriolet ‡ Cape cart Cart Chaise Chariot Biga Triga Quadriga Cidomo Croydon Curricle Dogcart Dokar Ekka Float Gari Gig Governess cart Hansom cab ‡ Jaunting car Kalesa Ralli car Red River cart Shay Sicilian cart Sjees Sprung cart Stanhope Sulky Tanga Tilbury Trap Tumbrel Two-wheeled calash Un-sprung cart Volante Whiskey Non-wheeled Kibitka Sled/sleigh Travois Troika Vozok Wagons and freight Chasse-marée Chuckwagon Conestoga wagon Covered wagon Dray Float Limbers and caissons Lorry Telega Trolley Trolley and lift van Vardo Wagon Vehicle construction Coachbuilder Front axle assembly Hammercloth Shaft bow Swingletree/singletree Undercarriage Wainwright Wheelwright Whippletree/double tree Harness Bearing rein Blinders Breast collar Breeching Bridle Collar Crupper Horse brass Lines Saddle Terret Trace Related Coachman Footman Postilion Livery Driving Draft horse Driving club Russian vehicles Tandem Museums and collections Equestrian use of roadways Categories Carriages Carts Coachbuilders Carriage museums Horse driving Images ‡ indicates vehicles that were used historically in public transport services Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Whippletree_(mechanism)&oldid=1292581985 " Categories : Mechanics Simple machines Horse-drawn vehicle parts Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from November 2023 All articles needing additional references Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from May 2025