https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rodney_Bagley

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American engineer and co-inventor of the catalytic converter Rodney Bagley with his wife at the award ceremony for the National Medal of Technology and Innovation (2005) Rodney D. Bagley (October 2, 1934-April 13, 2023) was an engineer and  co- inventor of the catalytic converter . Rodney Bagley was born in Ogden, Utah , on 2 October 1934. He earned a B.S. in geological engineering in 1960, and a PhD in ceramic engineering in 1964, both from the University of Utah . He worked for Corning Incorporated from 1963 until his retirement in 1994, researching unique ceramic materials. Bagley is a Corning Research fellow , an American Ceramic Society fellow, and recipient of the Geijsbeck Award (1985) and the International Ceramics Prize (1996). He was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2002. [ 1 ] The Clean Air Act (1970) set new standards for automotive emissions . Bagley, as part of a Corning team that also included Irwin Lachman and geologist Ronald Lewis, invented the core, or substrate , used in modern catalytic converters. They developed the extrusion die along with a process that made a thin-walled, honeycomb cellular ceramic substrate. Thousands of cellular channels through the structure allowed for a large surface area. The inside surface area was then coated with a catalyst that reacted with pollutants, converting 95% of exhaust pollutants into harmless emissions, including carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and water vapor . A restriction of the ceramic substrate was that due to its sensitivity, only lead-free gasoline could be used. [ 2 ] Ceramic substrate technology is now used by every automotive manufacturer in the world and is credited with reducing automotive pollutants by more than three billion tons worldwide. References [ edit ] ^ National Inventors Hall of Fame Profile for Rodney Bagley ^ Patent:EXTRUSION METHOD FOR FORMING THIN-WALLED HONEYCOMB STRUCTURES Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rodney_Bagley&oldid=1249167833 " Categories : 1934 births 2023 deaths People from Ogden, Utah 20th-century American inventors University of Utah alumni National Medal of Technology recipients Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata