https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breaker_bar

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Industrial handtool Not to be confused with Wrecking bar . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Breaker bar" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( May 2010 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Breaker bar A breaker bar (also known as a power bar ) is a long non-ratcheting bar that is used with socket wrench -style sockets. They are used to break loose very tight fasteners because their additional length allows the same amount of force to generate significantly more torque than a standard length socket wrench. [ 1 ] : 1, 3 Their use prevents damage to the ratcheting mechanism of a socket wrench. Often, after the first half turn, the fastener is loose enough to be turned with a socket wrench. Function [ edit ] The long handle on breaker bars compared to shorter wrenches allows a larger torque to be generated with the same amount of force.  It is effectively a lever , one of the simple machines . [ 2 ] Also, the absence of a ratcheting mechanism makes a breaker bar considerably stronger than a ratchet. This allows greater torque to be applied to a fastener without the tool failing. A breaker bar can be improvised by inserting a wrench into a length of metal pipe to increase the available torque by using the pipe to extend the effective length of the breaker bar. A pipe used for this purpose is called a cheater bar or snipe. Materials [ edit ] A breaker bar is able to create a larger amount of rotational force compared to a standard socket wrench. A standard breaker bar is strong enough to allow the user to apply up to 2,500 pound-feet (3,400 N⋅m) of torque without breaking the bar. [ 3 ] A high-end 1/2" socket wrench can withstand a maximum of 500 pound-feet (680 N⋅m) of torque. [ 4 ] Since the breaker bar creates and withstands a larger amount of torque it is often used in place of a standard socket wrench to break loose tight-fitting fasteners. To be able to create these high torque numbers breaker bars have to be made out of a metal of adequate strength properties. High-quality breaker bars are typically made of chromium-vanadium steel (AISI 6150). [ 5 ] Chromium-vanadium steel is known for its high strength, excellent toughness, and shock resistance. [ 6 ] Chromium vanadium steel has a yield strength at 0.2% offset of 84.0 kilo-pound per square inch (KSI). Meaning, chromium-vanadium steel can withstand up to 84 KSI before it begins to yield. [ 7 ] If the steel is unloaded before the yield point it is elastic and the material will return to its original configuration. Because of its high yield strength and shock resistance, standard socket wrenches, and breaker bars are fashioned from this material. In addition to its high yield strength, chromium-vanadium steel provides resistance to abrasion, oxidation, and corrosion making it a viable material for the production of tools. [ 6 ] Physics [ edit ] Rotational force, also known as torque, varies depending on where the force is applied. If the force is applied closer to the object the torque is smaller than if the same amount of force is applied further from the object. A breaker bar creates a larger force due to the amount of torque that can be applied through a longer handle versus a shorter one. A lever arm, also known as a moment arm, is an important factor to consider when measuring the torque of a breaker bar. Having a longer lever arm creates a larger surface area for the force to be applied, which increases rotational force. Surface area is the measure of the total amount of area an object occupies. When the radius of the moment arm is increased, the surface area is proportionally increased. [ 8 ] The concept that torque is related to a larger moment arm is shown in the torque equation. The torque equation can be written as follows: 𝜏 (Torque) = F (Force) x r (Radius). Since the force applied is multiplied by the radius of the moment arm, having a larger radius subsequently creates a larger torque. This makes the torque value on the point of rotation much greater as the size of the handle or moment arm increases. [ 9 ] References [ edit ] ^ U.S. Patent 4,811,638 (1989) [ dead link ] . Retrieved 3 May 2010 ^ "Simple Machines" . hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu . With a lever, one can obtain a multiplication of force, but of course not a multiplication of energy. The multiplication of force can be seen to arise from the equilibrium of torques, where an input force Fe with a long lever arm Le can balance a larger resistance force Fr with a short lever arm Lr. ^ Smith, John (6 January 2022). "Can You Use A Torque Wrench As A Breaker Bar?" . Clever Handymen . Retrieved 14 February 2023 . ^ Dehner, Robert S. (2 September 2022). "How Much Torque Can A Drive Take? (1/2, 1/4, 3/8 Drive) [Analyzed]" . powertoolinstitute.net . Retrieved 14 February 2023 . ^ Sui, Jason (3 March 2020). "Top 10 Best Breaker Bars" . AutoGuide.com . Retrieved 13 February 2023 . ^ a b "Alloy Steel 6150 | Grade Summary" . Metal Supermarkets . Retrieved 14 February 2023 . ^ "Chromium Vanadium Steel AISI 6150 – Boltport Fasteners" . boltport.com . Retrieved 14 February 2023 . ^ "Simple Machines" . ecampus.matc.edu . Retrieved 14 February 2023 . ^ "Torque and Rotational Motion Tutorial | Physics" . physics.uoguelph.ca . Retrieved 14 February 2023 . v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaker_bar&oldid=1323980750 " Category : Wrenches Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from June 2024 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from February 2023 Articles needing additional references from May 2010 All articles needing additional references