https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101817/best-way-to-remove-a-broken-brass-bronze-screw

Best way to remove a broken brass/bronze screw Ask Question Asked 4 days ago Modified 4 days ago Viewed 183 times 4 I have an aluminium block with a sensor bolted into it. This very corroded sensor broke when I tried to remove it. It looks like it was made of brass/bronze. What is the safest way to remove the screw? I found so far those possible solutions: Screw extractor Drilling until very thin without touching the thread and removing bits with a small screwdriver Other ways? With option 1 I'm scared of breaking the screw extractor. With option 2 I'm scared of making permanent damage. What would be the best way to remove it? Here is some photo of broken sensor and what a new one looks like: screw Share Improve this question Follow asked Dec 25 at 4:08 Pat 141 1 1 bronze badge New contributor Pat is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct . Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 2 If you have sufficient access to drill the sensor, consider to use a left-hand drill bit set of increasing diameters. Begin with the smallest one that will remove material, in order to center the hole, reducing the threat of thread damage. It may be useful to grind or file the broken portion flat, to provide for better drill centering. As you drill in expanding sizes, the bit will generate heat, helping to loosen the part. The left-hand action will also assist in applying force to remove the threaded section. Also take into account the opening in which the sensor fragment remains. Will debris from the drilling portion enter a chamber or other volume that would create problems in the future. Some penetrating oil may be helpful, but check for cautions regarding application to aluminum. Amazon (US) has a number of sets of varying size ranges. Prices start at US$13.99 and run to triple dollar digits. Share Improve this answer Follow edited Dec 25 at 15:45 answered Dec 25 at 11:40 fred_dot_u 5,330 1 1 gold badge 10 10 silver badges 18 18 bronze badges Add a comment | You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions screw See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 3 Is there a way to remove a broken screw? 3 Best way to repair/replace broken-off CR-V antenna? 8 Standard mounting screw for vehicle relay 8 How to lock crank shaft while torquing central screw? 0 Identifying XLH 883 Screw leaking oil 1 Clio 2 engine support screw broken 1 Screw that remains attached to shaft 0 LiFePO4 / screw thread came out / how to fix? 2 Set screw keeps coming loose 1 How to remove snapped screws holding radio? Hot Network Questions How can I make an object shadowless? Is a commission considered a 'commercial use' under the CC-BY-NC? Fraud/Credit that does NOT require a credit check Use some characters from the text font instead of the corresponding ones from mtpro2 How is the disc identifier found in .cda files computed? Why are there sparks when I put a multimeter to an apparently unused light switch? To what extent can we reason about 1-topoi by working with 0-truncated objects in HoTT? Can I use an lmer for count data if the glmer fails the dispersion test? How to terminate unused taps for multi-ratio CT How good am I doing at Wordle? Basic Graph theory Monovariant What is the "little red wagon" in the Miranda Lambert song? Knights and knaves on graphs What is the benefit of letting an in-progress espagnole sauce rest overnight? Why doesn't the HDMI port on an HP EliteBook Ultra G1i work as an output port? pass-otp fails on second device Do mobile network base stations still use lead acid for backup power? How can I convert object locations currently in UTMs to a rectangular (square) coordinate system with lower left corner coordinates as 0 m , 0 m? Is the 2013 "photo" of a hydrogen atom with an electron orbiting real? Dynamically adjust contour opacity on steep slopes in QGIS Why does \textstyle not work in \smashoperator? Reproduce formatting of diagram: horizontal spacing, overlapping grids Do Orlando hotel prices spike at the last minute? circuitikz: European Amplifier (en amp) without pins or with absolut valued pin length more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.