https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pencil_sharpener

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Tool for sharpening a pencil's writing point by shaving away its worn surface This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Pencil sharpener" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( November 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A manual prism sharpener generates long fan-shaped shavings Video of a mechanical pencil sharpener, showing gearing and helical sharpening blades Video showing a manual prism sharpener A pencil sharpener (or pencil pointer , or in Ireland a parer or topper [ 1 ] ) is a tool for sharpening a pencil 's writing point by shaving away its worn surface. Pencil sharpeners may be operated manually or by an electric motor . It is common for many sharpeners to have a casing around them, which can be removed for emptying the pencil shavings debris into a bin. History [ edit ] Before the development of dedicated pencil sharpeners, a pencil was sharpened by whittling with a knife . The development of pencil sharpeners began in France when a French book from 1822 reported in detail about an invention of Mr. C. A. Boucher (Paris) for the construction of a pencil sharpener. He was working with pantographs and apparently needed a device to precisely sharpen the pencils. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] The device of Mr. Boucher was technically sensible and functional. His idea was also internationally known and recognized, as shown by corresponding reports in German literature at this time. [ 4 ] But Mr. Boucher had not applied a patent for his pencil sharpener. Commercial use of his inventions is unlikely. French mathematician Bernard Lassimonne (Limoges) applied for the world's first patent (French patent #2444) on a pencil sharpener in 1828. [ 5 ] Pencil sharpener devices using his patent were actually produced and sold by Binant, a shop for painting accessories in Paris. [ 3 ] In 1833 in England, Cooper & Eckstein patented the so-called Styloxynon, a simple device consisting of two sharp files set together at right angle in a small block of rosewood. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] This is the oldest pencil sharpener that has surviving examples. [ 8 ] In the 1830s and 1840s, some French people, all based in Paris, were engaged in construction of simple pencil sharpening tools, like François Joseph Lahausse. [ 9 ] These devices were partially sold, but without supra-regional significance. In 1847, the French nobleman Thierry des Estivaux invented a simple hand-held pencil sharpener in its recognizable modern form. [ 10 ] [ 11 ] The first American pencil sharpener was patented by Walter Kittredge Foster of Bangor, Maine in 1855. [ 12 ] He founded a company – the first pencil sharpener company in the world – and produced such small hand-held pencil sharpeners in a large amount. Only a few years later the sharpeners were sold also in Europe as "American pencil sharpeners". [ 13 ] At the end of the 19th century, especially in the United States, pencil sharpeners with various mechanisms had been developed and put on the market. These devices were often heavy and intended for use in offices. Examples are the Perfect Pencil Pointer (Goodell. Co.), the GEM Pencil Sharpener (by Gould & Cook Co.), the Planetary Pencil Sharpener ( A. B. Dick Company ), all from the US or the Jupiter (Guhl & Harbeck Co.) from Germany. [ 14 ] At the beginning of the 20th century the company Automatic Pencil Sharpener Co. (APSCO) was founded and brought out the US Automatic Pencil Sharpener after 1907, [ 14 ] which dominated in those years. They later sold machines with milling mechanisms, such as the Climax, Dexter, Wizard, and Junior models. [ 15 ] In the next few decades, APSCO became the largest pencil sharpening machine producer in the world and together with a few other US companies, it dominated the market. Electric pencil sharpeners for offices have been made since at least 1917. [ 16 ] In May 2011, tourism officials in Logan, Ohio , put on display, in its regional welcome center, hundreds of pencil sharpeners which had been collected by Rev. Paul Johnson, an Ohio minister who died in 2010. Johnson, a World War II veteran, had kept his collection of more than 3,400 sharpeners in a small shed, outside his home in Carbon Hill in southeast Ohio. He had started collecting after his wife gave him a few pencil sharpeners as a gift in the late 1980s and kept them organized into categories, including cats, Christmas, and Disneyland . [ 17 ] Manual [ edit ] Prism [ edit ] This section possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations . Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. ( October 2024 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Magnesium alloy prism sharpener So-called "prism" sharpeners, also called "manual" or "pocket" sharpeners in the United States, have no separate moving parts and are typically the smallest and cheapest commonly used pencil sharpener on the market. The simplest common variety is a small rectangular prism or block, only about 1 × 5/8 × 7/16 inch (2.5 × 1.7 × 1.1 cm) in size. The block-shaped sharpener consists of a combined point-shaping cone that is aligned to the cylindrical pencil alignment guide hole, into which the pencil is inserted. A sharp blade is mounted so that its sharp edge just enters the shaping cone tangentially . The pencil is inserted into the sharpener and rotated while the sharpener is held motionless. The body of the sharpener is often contoured, ridged or grooved to make the small block easier to firmly grip, and is typically made of aluminum alloy , magnesium alloy or hard plastic . An unusual hand-cranked prism sharpener, with a shavings cover The blade inside the sharpener shaves the wood and graphite tip of the pencil, while the shavings emerge through a slot along the blade edge. It is important that the cylindrical alignment hole closely fits the diameter of the pencil, to keep the pencil from wobbling, which would cause stepped or lurching cut-depths and point breakage. Another important feature is a larger clearance hole at the end of the cone allowing sections of the pencil lead which break away to be removed with only minor inconvenience. Prism sharpeners can be bare or enclosed in a container to collect the shavings, while some enclosed sharpeners may be harder to clear in the event of a blockage. A few prism sharpeners are hand-cranked, rotating the cutting blade instead of rotating the pencil. Moderate care is needed to not break the tip of the pencil being sharpened, requiring the pencil to be sharpened again. However, because pencils may have different standard diameters in different nations, imported sharpeners may have non-standard-sized alignment guide-holes, making sharpening attempts difficult. If the alignment hole is too small, the pencil cannot be inserted, while if it is too large, the tip of the pencil will repeatedly break off. Prism sharpeners may be right- or left-handed, requiring clockwise or counter-clockwise rotation of the pencil being sharpened. Linear blade [ edit ] A linear sharpener that uses a razor blade Unlike prism sharpeners, linear blade sharpeners do not rotate relative to the pencil being sharpened, and may be viewed as just a special form of knife, with a mechanical guide for increased safety and convenience. Some models use replaceable shaving razor blades , while others have permanently-fitted blades. Linear blade sharpeners may require more skill, but they allow one to sharpen the tip of the pencil into any desired shape and angle of taper, whereas prism sharpeners have a fixed sharpening angle and produce circular symmetry. While most linear blade sharpeners are simple and directly hand-operated, some devices in the past were crank-operated, using mechanisms to convert crank rotation into linear motion. [ 18 ] Cylindrical (planetary) [ edit ] These mechanisms are also called planetary sharpeners , [ 18 ] in reference to their use of planetary gears . A larger, stationary planetary sharpener can be mounted on a desk or wall and powered by a hand crank . Typically, the pencil is inserted into the sharpener with one hand, and the crank is turned with the other. This rotates a set of helical cylindrical cutters in the mechanism, set at an acute angle to each other. The multiple cutting edges quickly sharpen the pencil, with a more precise finish than a single-blade device [ citation needed ] . Some cylindrical sharpeners have only one helical cutter cylinder [ citation needed ] , but most have two cylinders or more. Most planetary sharpeners have a large opening, with a rotatable guide disk in front of it that has multiple holes of different sizes, to accommodate pencils of many different diameters. Advanced models have a spring-driven holder for the pencil, so that the pencil automatically is pushed into the mechanism while being sharpened. Some versions also offer a regulator of the desired sharpness, since it is not always desired to make the graphite core needle-sharp. [ citation needed ] Other systems [ edit ] Jupiter 1 with rotary disk cutters Some older models like the 1897 German Jupiter 1 used reversible rotary cutter-disks with cutting edges radiating from the center on each side. These were high-end models, quite large and expensive. Others simply used abrasives like sandpaper . In some cases an abrasive was used to shape the graphite core, while the wood was cut some other way. [ citation needed ] Electric [ edit ] A well-used modern desk-style electric pencil sharpener The oldest surviving electric pencil sharpener is the Boston Polar Club pencil sharpener, introduced around 1936. [ 19 ] Electric pencil sharpeners work on the same principle as manual ones, but one or more flat-bladed or cylindrical cutters are rotated by an electric motor . [ 16 ] Some electric pencil sharpeners are powered by batteries rather than being plugged into a building's electrical system, making them more portable. Auto-stop electric pencil sharpeners are able to sense when the tip of the pencil is long enough, so they stop automatically. In basic automatic pencil sharpeners, the lead may become too long and break, and so users must be careful to supervise the operation. Specialized [ edit ] Lead sharpener/lead pointer and 2 mm pencil lead in a leadholder Specialized sharpener for carpenter's flat pencils This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( November 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Specialized sharpeners are available that operate on non-standard sizes of pencil-shaped markers, such as wax crayons used in primary schools. Sharpeners that have two openings, one for normal pencils and one for larger crayons, are fairly common. Sharpeners with a single blade for use on wax crayons are available, and sometimes included in boxes of crayons. These often have plastic blades, which are adequate for the soft wax. An artist's or draftsman's pencil sharpener leaves the graphite untouched and sharpens only the wood (some models can switch from standard to wood-only by an adjustment). The graphite lead is then honed to a sharp point with a lead pointer, which sharpens only the lead without wood. Lead pointers are also used with mechanical leadholders , with thicker diameter leads like 2 mm which have removable/refillable leads. Some sharpeners which function as a long point sharpener, have a second hole in which the blade sharpens the untouched graphite to a long, more precise point than would be otherwise possible using a single hole long point sharpener. Carpenters may use carpenter pencils , the flattened shape of which stops them from rolling away, while still providing a constant line width. These pencils were traditionally sharpened with tools conveniently to hand, such as a plane or sandpaper. Rotating pencil sharpeners are now available for these pencils, in which a rotating plastic collar holds the pencil in position, although they then sharpen to the usual conical point as for a round pencil, abandoning some distinctive aspects of the carpenter's pencil. Alternatively, a special carpenter's pencil sharpener can be used, which has a sliding mechanism that leaves flat facets on the lead, in a manner similar to hand sharpening with a sharp knife. Mechanical pencils with thin diameter leads dispense the graphite lead progressively during use and thus do not require sharpening; such pencils are sometimes called "self-sharpening". A type of mechanical pencil has a rotating gear mechanism which rotates the lead slightly every time the lead is lifted off the paper, helping to maintain a consistent, sharp point. If a finer or broader line is needed, a separate mechanical pencil using a lead with a different diameter is required. Gallery [ edit ] Hand-cranked planetary sharpener, with cover in place Hand-cranked planetary sharpener from 1950 to 1960, with cover removed Hand-cranked planetary sharpener with spring-driven pencil holder. The small knob behind the crank is a sharpness regulator. AC-powered electric pencil sharpener. The mechanism is similar to the planetary sharpener, except there is a motor instead of a crank. Battery-operated sharpener Ecologically manufactured pencil sharpener made of wood A wall-mounted planetary sharpener (casing removed to reveal the mechanism) Prism sharpener with two holes for two sizes of pencils A Swiss Gedess sharpener where sharpening is accomplished by swirling hand rotation See also [ edit ] Mechanical pencil Pencil Sharpener Museum Technology portal References [ edit ] ^ Gerry Coughlan; Martin Hughes (2007). Irish Language and Culture . Lonely Planet. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-74059-577-3 . ^ Recueil de la Société polytechnique: ou Recueil industriel, manufacturier, agricole et commercial, de la salubrité publique, ... (in French). Société polytechnique. 1822. pp. 290– 295. ^ a b Grahl, André. "History of pencil sharpeners and pointers −1850 Lassimone, Cooper/Eckstein, Lahausse" . patent-infos.de . Archived from the original on 13 November 2019 . Retrieved 1 March 2019 . ^ Hülsse, Julius A. (1841). Allgemeine Maschinen-Encyclopädie: A – Beu (in German). Voss. p. 247. ^ Du Commerce, France min (1835). Description des machines et procédés spécifiés dans les brevets d'invention, publ. par C.P. Molard. [With] Table générale des vingt premiers volumes... (in French). pp. 583, 81– 83. ^ Repertory of patent inventions and other discoveries and improvements in arts, manufactures and agriculture . Macintosh. 1833. pp. 318– 319. ^ The Mechanics' Magazine, Museum, Register, Journal & Gazette . Knight and Lacey. 1837. p. 185. ^ "RARE ANTIQUE EARLY PATENT PENCIL SHARPENER 1830s – COOPER & ECKSTEIN STYLOXYNON" . Worthpoint . Archived from the original on 2 March 2019 . Retrieved 1 March 2019 . ^ Bulletin de la Société d'encouragement pour l'industrie nationale (in French). Société d'encouragement pour l'industrie nationale. 1834. pp. 406– 407. ^ Description des machines et procédés pour lesquels des brevets d'invention ont été pris sous le régime ... (in French). L'Imprimerie Nationale. 1852. p. 260. ISBN 9781010644743 . {{ cite book }} : ISBN / Date incompatibility ( help ) ^ "20 Things You Didn't Know About... Pencils" , Discover magazine , May 2007 , retrieved 30 April 2009 ^ "Handheld Pencil Sharpeners" . Archived from the original on 18 July 2011 . Retrieved 9 July 2011 . ^ Neueste Nachrichten aus dem Gebiete der Politik: 1858 (in German). Wolf. 1858. p. 2623. ^ a b "Mechanical Pencil Sharpeners ~ 1900–1909" . officemuseum.com . Retrieved 3 March 2019 . ^ "Mechanical Pencil Sharpeners ~ 1910–1919" . officemuseum.com . Retrieved 3 March 2019 . ^ a b "Electric Pencil Sharpeners" . Retrieved 9 July 2011 . ^ "New home for Ohio man's pencil sharpener 'museum' " . ABC7 Los Angeles . ^ a b "Pencil Sharpeners" . Retrieved 9 July 2011 . ^ "The Antikey Chop" . Boston Polar Club Pencil Sharpener . Retrieved 28 August 2019 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Pencil sharpeners . The dictionary definition of pencil sharpener at Wiktionary André Grahl: History of pencil sharpeners and pointers Video of production of hand-held pencil sharpeners v t e Pencils Types Carpenter Colored Blue Copying Grease Mechanical Accessories Extender Negro Sharpener Branded models Blackwing 602 IKEA People Hymen Lipman John Eberhard Faber Joseph Dixon Slavoljub Eduard Penkala Related topics Derwent Pencil Museum I, Pencil Pencil fighting Pencil Sharpener Museum Writing implement Category v t e Cutting and abrasive tools Adze Axe Blade Bolt cutter Broach Burnisher Ceramic tile cutter Chisel Countersink Cutting tool Diagonal pliers Diamond blade Diamond tool Disc cutter Drawknife Drill bit Emery cloth File Froe Glass cutter Grater Grinding wheel Honing steel Knife Laser Lawn mower Machete Meat slicer Mezzaluna Milling cutter Nail clipper Nibbler Oxy-fuel cutting torch Pencil sharpener Pipecutter Pizza cutter Plasma cutter Plane Pocket knife Putty knife Rasp Razor Razor strop Reamer Sandpaper Saw Abrasive saw Bandsaw Chainsaw Circular saw Concrete saw Coping saw Fretsaw Hacksaw Hand saw Hole saw Miter saw Wire saw Scalpel Scissors Scraper Card Hand Paint Sharpening jig Sharpening stone Snips Steel wool Surform Switchblade Tool bit Utility knife Water jet cutter Wire brush Wire stripper Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking Authority control databases GND Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pencil_sharpener&oldid=1323572775 " Categories : Office equipment Pencils Sharpening Mechanical hand tools Domestic implements 1828 introductions French inventions Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 errors: ISBN date Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from November 2023 All articles needing additional references Use dmy dates from October 2020 Articles that may contain original research from October 2024 All articles that may contain original research All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2018 Commons category link from Wikidata Articles containing video clips