https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remy_Electric

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Remy Electric ) American manufacturing company This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject , potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral . Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent sources . ( June 2018 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Remy International, Inc. (formerly Delco Remy ) headquartered in Pendleton, Indiana is an American manufacturer, remanufacturer, and distributor of light duty starters , alternators , hybrid power technology, and Delco Remy brand heavy duty systems.  Remy has facilities in eleven countries (such as Belgium, Germany, Hungary, United Kingdom, USA, Canada, Mexico [ 1 ] and Tunisia) and four different continents around the world. [ 2 ] History [ edit ] A 1920 advertisement Remy International had its beginnings in 1896 when Frank and Perry Remy Nates opened a home wiring business in Anderson, Indiana . In 1901 the Remy Electric Company was incorporated. Perry Remy had conducted experiments with magnetos and by 1910 the company was producing 50,000 magnetos a year. [ 3 ] The magnetos were made for a number of early cars, which included Buick . [ 4 ] To prove the dependability of their product, the Remy brothers sent two men on a 6,000-mile (9,700 km) journey in 1909. They drove a Remy-equipped Buick Four on a ten-week trip from the hills of Kentucky to the swamps of Florida. The Remy brothers sold their firm to Stoughton Fletcher Jr. and the Fletcher Savings and Trust in 1911 for a reputed one million dollars. Fletcher expanded the product line to include cranking motors, generators, and distributors. [ 3 ] Remy's competition was Dayton Engineering Laboratories Company (Delco) under the leadership of Charles F. Kettering , who - along with Clyde Coleman - invented the electric starter motor for vehicles in 1911. [ 5 ] Kettering also manufactured ignition equipment and generators. The United States Motor Company purchased the two competitors in 1916 and incorporated them into their operations. The companies remained separated until purchased by General Motors two years later. [ 3 ] It became the company's second largest parts-manufacturing center outside of Michigan. [ 4 ] In 1918, Delco Remy began operating as a division of General Motors, developing advanced technologies and providing the industry with automotive, heavy duty and military products.  A successful General Motors division for more than 75 years, Delco Remy became its own entity in 1994 when a group of private investors bought the heavy duty and automotive divisions. [ 3 ] Delco Remy changed its name to Remy International on August 1, 2004. [ 6 ] The company continued to use the Delco Remy brand for some products under license from General Motors. [ 3 ] In October 2007 Remy Worldwide Holdings filed a voluntary prepackaged proceeding under chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code and exited the proceedings in 2008. Fidelity National Financial came to be their largest equity holder with 47% of the shares of common stock by converting Fidelity's ownership of Remy's bonds into new equity of the reorganized Remy. [ 7 ] On December 13, 2012, Remy International was listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange and CEO John Weber rang the ceremonial opening bell on December 17, 2012. [ 8 ] [ better source needed ] Approximately one year later, Remy stock was listed to the Nasdaq Global Select Market on December 16, 2013. [ 9 ] Remy International announced on January 13, 2014, that it would acquire the assets of USA Industries. [ 10 ] USA Industries is a worldwide distributor of remanufactured and new alternators, starters, CV axles and disc brake calipers. It was founded in 1985 in Bay Shore, New York. Today, USA Industries has over 300 employees with warehousing and distribution centers across the United States. [ 11 ] BorgWarner announced an agreement to acquire Remy International on July 13, 2015, and completed the acquisition on November 10, 2015. [ 12 ] "Delco Remy" remains a registered trademark of General Motors Corporation licensed to BorgWarner PDS (Anderson) L.L.C. [ 13 ] On January 25, 2019, BBB Industries, LLC,  acquired the equity interests of the Remy North American Rotating Electric business consisting of Worldwide Automotive, LLC and Remy Mexico Holdings B.V., more commonly known as “Remy Power Products”. The transaction encompasses the entirety of the North American Rotating Electric business. The “Remy” brand is a licensed trademark of BBB Industries, LLC. [ 14 ] [ 15 ] [ better source needed ] In July 2023, BorgWarner spun off its fuel parts and aftermarket segments as part of a plan to focus on its electric vehicle drivetrain business. The newly created standalone company PHINIA, which took over the fuel parts and aftermarket segments, publicly trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PHIN. Products [ edit ] Heavy duty products [ edit ] Remy International's heavy duty products are sold under the Delco Remy brand which is licensed from General Motors.  As of 2014, only starters and alternators are manufactured and sold under the Delco Remy brand name. The company sells products as components for new vehicle production in addition to replacement units and parts through various distributors and original equipment dealerships. Alternators [ edit ] Remy International produces both brush-style and brushless heavy duty alternators. The brushless contains fewer moving parts, increasing both efficiency and durability.  Examples of current brushless products include 36SI, 40SI, and 55SI, and brush style the 24SI and 28SI. [ 16 ] See also [ edit ] Oradel Industrial Center References [ edit ] Esther Dittlinger, Anderson: A Pictorial History , copyright 1990, page 104. ^ "Operará empresa Remy en Oradel El Mañana de Nuevo Laredo" . www.elmanana.com.mx . Retrieved 2019-07-23 . ^ Remy Locations ^ a b c d e Staff Writer (26 July 2004). "Delco Remy International Changes Name" . Auto Service World . Retrieved 4 December 2017 . ^ a b Klier, Thomas H.; Rubenstein, James M. (2008). Who Really Made Your Car?: Restructuring and Geographic Change in the Auto Industry . Kalamazoo, Michigan: W.E. Upjohn Institute. p. 46. ISBN 978-0-88099-333-3 . ^ Kern, Kevin F.; Wilson, Gregory S. (2023-03-28). Ohio: A History of the Buckeye State (2nd ed.). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons. p. 288. ISBN 978-1-119-70847-6 . ^ World, Auto Service (2004-07-26). "Delco Remy International Changes Name" . Auto Service World . Retrieved 2024-07-03 . ^ Staff Writer (9 October 2007). "Remy Files Prepackaged Plan of Reorganization" . aftermarketnews . Retrieved 16 September 2024 . ^ PRNewswire: Remy International Announces NASDAQ Listing ^ Market Watch: Remy International, Inc. Named to NASDAQ Global Select Market ^ "Form S-1 New Remy Corp" . www.sec.gov . Retrieved 2024-07-03 . ^ Remy International Acquires Assets of USA Industries ^ "BorgWarner to acquire Remy International for $950M" . Indianapolis Business Journal . 2015-07-13 . Retrieved 2024-07-03 . ^ "BorgWarner Completes Acquisition Of Remy International" . 10 November 2015 . Retrieved 30 July 2017 . ^ BBB Industries Acquires The Remy Power ProductS North American Rotating Electric Business , bbbind.com , January 25, 2019, Retrieved 2024-01-25 ^ "BBB Industries Acquires the Remy Power Products North American Rotating Electric Business" (PDF) . bbbind.com . January 25, 2019. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2021-11-29 . Retrieved 2024-04-09 . ^ Delco Remy Alternator Overview External links [ edit ] Official website Delco-Remy Clan (1957–1960) – Digitized copies of the Delco-Remy Division newsletter v t e Automotive industry in the United States Automotive industry Economy of the United States Transportation in the United States Vehicle manufacturers and brands Current ( list ) AGCO Challenger Tractor Massey Ferguson AM General Anteros Coachworks Amp Electric Vehicles Arcimoto Armour Group ATK motorcycles Autocar Blue Bird Callaway Cars Caterpillar Inc. Czinger Chenowth Racing Products Environmental Performance Vehicles Equus Automotive Forest River Champion Bus Collins ElDorado National Glaval Bus Starcraft Bus Ford Lincoln SVT General Dynamics Land Systems General Motors Buick Cadillac Cadillac V series Chevrolet Chevrolet Performance GMC Gillig Growler Manufacturing and Engineering Harley-Davidson Ingersoll Rand Club Car HDT Global HME International Motors IC Bus John Deere Karma Automotive Laffite Lenco Industries Lockheed Martin Lucid Motors Mack Trucks Millennium Luxury Coaches Morgan Olson Motor Coach Industries Oshkosh Pierce Paccar Kenworth Peterbilt Panoz Phoenix Motorcars Polaris Industries Global Electric Motorcars Indian Victory REV Group Fleetwood Holiday Rambler Laymor Wheeled Coach Rezvani Motors Rivian Scuderia Cameron Glickenhaus SSC North America Superformance Telo Tesla Textron Arctic Cat E-Z-Go Cushman Trans Tech Ultimaster VIA Motors VLF Automotive Xos, Inc. Zero Motorcycles Foreign subsidiaries BMW Daimler Truck Honda Acura Hyundai Motor Group Hyundai Kia Mazda Mercedes-Benz Mitsubishi Nissan Infiniti Seres Group Seres Stellantis 1 Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram Subaru Toyota Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing Volkswagen Defunct / former 2 Allis-Chalmers American Austin American Electric American LaFrance American Motors Hudson Essex Terraplane Nash Rambler Armor Armored Auburn Aurica Autoette Avanti Avery BMC Boulder Electric Vehicle Carbon Motors Corporation Checker Motors Corporation Clydesdale Motor Truck Company Coda 2 Commonwealth Cord Case CNH Global Cycle-Scoot DeLorean Diamond-Star Duesenberg Durant Flint Locomobile Mason Rugby Star Eagle Bus Excalibur Fiberfab Fitch Four Drive Fisker Automotive Fisker Coachbuild Force Protection Ford Continental Edsel Mercury FMC 2 General Motors Cartercar Elmore GM Diesel Geo LaSalle Marquette McLaughlin Oakland Oldsmobile Pontiac Saturn Scripps-Booth Sheridan Viking Yellow Coach Goshen Coach Green GreenTech Grumman Henney International Harvester Jeffery Kaiser-Frazer Allstate Frazer Henry J Kaiser Willys Local Marathon Marmon Roosevelt Marvel Matbro Mercer Monaco Coach Mosler MotoCzysz Muntz New United North American Bus Industries Oliver Farm Equipment Packard Peerless Pierce-Arrow Proterra Sebring Vanguard Stellantis Eagle Plymouth Sterling Studebaker Erskine Rockne Stutz Scion Twentieth Century United Defense VPG Visionary VL White Wildfire ZAP Zimmer Concept and pre-production Alpha Motor Corporation Aptera Motors Bollinger Motors Canoo Commuter Cars Elio Motors Faraday Future Fisker Inc Lordstown Motors Myers Motors Nikola Slate Auto Trion Supercars Factories Active BMW Spartanburg Chrysler (list) Ford (list) General Motors (list) Honda (list) Hyundai (Alabama) Hyundai Metaplant (Georgia) Kia Motors Manufacturing Georgia Mercedes-Benz (Alabama) Subaru (Indiana) Tesla (list) Volkswagen (Chattanooga) Defunct Chrysler (list) Ford (list) General Motors (list) Packard Volkswagen (Westmoreland) Auto component makers and performance car modders Allison American Expedition Vehicles Aptiv BFGoodrich BorgWarner Callaway Cars Caterpillar Cummins Brammo Detroit Diesel Eaton Firestone General Tire Goodyear Cooper Tire & Rubber Company Hennessey Ingersoll Rand Legacy Lingenfelter Nexteer Remy International Saleen Shelby American SRT Timken Uniroyal Torrington Visteon Design studios Calty Design Research Designworks Rezvani Automotive Designs Wheego Electric Cars By state Massachusetts Related topics AAA Chicago Auto Show Interstate Highway System List of automobiles manufactured in the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration New York International Auto Show North American International Auto Show SAE International 1 Non-U.S. based parent company that owns subsidiaries headquartered in U.S. 2 Company still exists but is no longer in the automotive manufacturing business " Big 3 " in bold Category Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Remy_International&oldid=1328128566#History " Categories : Pendleton, Indiana Manufacturing companies established in 1901 Manufacturing companies based in Indiana Companies formerly listed on the Nasdaq 1901 establishments in Indiana Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles lacking reliable references from June 2018 All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from April 2024 Official website not in Wikidata