https://www.thedrive.com/authors/adam-ismail

About Adam is a Senior Editor at The Drive, concentrating on curating and developing the site’s slate of daily journalism, from initial pitch to final copy edit. When he’s not at his desk researching leads and working with writers, he’s testing vehicles or reviewing racing games, new and old. He joined The Drive in 2023, following seven years of covering consumer technology and cars. A car lover and gamer since his earliest memories, Adam came to know the automotive world through video games. First it was Daytona USA, Sega Rally, and Ridge Racer; then came Need For Speed, which inspired an encyclopedic knowledge of ’90s supercars, and, of course, Gran Turismo. If not for them, he’d assuredly be doing something else right now. Adam is based in the suburbs outside Philly, where there are ample roads for his hot hatch to stretch its legs. In his car, he’s probably listening to indie rock, drum and bass, or Yankees baseball. Experience Adam has been involved in some aspect of news production or another since graduating Rutgers University with a journalism degree in 2015. Out of college, he designed newspaper pages and edited stories for The Star Ledger's sports section. Later, he covered mobile tech for Digital Trends and Tom's Guide, and sim racing at GTPlanet, before finally arriving in automotive journalism through Jalopnik in 2020. Given his background in technology as well as cars, Adam's expertise lies in the intersection between both industries—an intersection that's become increasingly blurred in this era of EVs, software-defined vehicles, displays, and voice assistants. (Nevertheless, his ideal ride has three pedals and just one screen that can at least run CarPlay.) During the worst of the chip shortage, Adam leaned on his experience in the tech sphere to explain why automakers were especially vulnerable. He's also dove deep into how some of the most influential racing games had their roots in the unlikely world of military simulation. Education BA, Journalism and Media Studies Rutgers University New Brunswick 2015 Notable Works How Sega Tried to Soothe Ayrton Senna’s Mourning Fans With a Video Game The Drive No, Caterpillar Is Definitely Not Making a Pickup Truck The Drive Sliding a Toyota GR Corolla on Ice Finally Made Me Enjoy Performance Driving The Drive 87-Year-Old 'Geezer' Buys 2025 Toyota GR Corolla as His First Four-Door The Drive Official Apple CarPlay Retrofit for 2010 Range Rover Is a Reminder of What We've Lost The Drive If you dig to the bottom of the internet, you might be able to find Adam’s old DeviantArt page, where he mocked up a user interface for a sequel to Ridge Racer Type 4 that will sadly never exist.