https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roll_center

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article relies largely or entirely on a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources . Find sources: "Roll center" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( May 2024 ) Finding the roll center of a MacPherson strut The roll center of a vehicle is the notional point at which the cornering forces in the suspension are reacted to the vehicle body. There are two definitions of roll center. The most commonly used is the geometric (or kinematic) roll center, whereas the Society of Automotive Engineers uses a force -based definition. [ 1 ] Definition [ edit ] Geometric roll center is solely dictated by the suspension geometry, and can be found using principles of the instant center of rotation . Force based roll center, according to the US Society of Automotive Engineers , is "The point in the transverse vertical plane through any pair of wheel centers at which lateral forces may be applied to the sprung mass without producing suspension roll". [ 1 ] The lateral location of the roll center is typically at the center-line of the vehicle when the suspension on the left and right sides of the car are mirror images of each other. The significance of the roll center can only be appreciated when the vehicle's center of mass is also considered. If there is a difference between the position of the center of mass and the roll center a moment arm is created. When the vehicle experiences angular velocity due to cornering, the length of the moment arm, combined with the stiffness of the springs and possibly anti-roll bars (also called 'anti-sway bar'), defines how much the vehicle will roll. This has other effects too, such as dynamic load transfer. Application [ edit ] When the vehicle rolls the roll centers migrate. The roll center height has been shown to affect behavior at the initiation of turns such as nimbleness and initial roll control. Testing methods [ edit ] Current methods of analyzing individual wheel instant centers have yielded more intuitive results of the effects of non-rolling weight transfer effects. This type of analysis is better known as the lateral-anti method.  This is where one takes the individual instant center locations of each corner of the car and then calculates the resultant vertical reaction vector due to lateral force. This value then is taken into account in the calculation of a jacking force and lateral weight transfer. This method works particularly well in circumstances where there are asymmetries in left to right suspension geometry. The practical equivalent of the above is to push laterally at the tire contact patch and measure the ratio of the change in vertical load to the horizontal force. See also [ edit ] Weight distribution Vehicle metrics References [ edit ] ^ a b An Introduction to Modern Vehicle Design edited by Julian Happian-Smith P293 v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Roll_center&oldid=1223610086 " Categories : Classical mechanics Geometric centers Vehicle technology Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from May 2024 All articles needing additional references Use American English from November 2020 All Wikipedia articles written in American English