https://www.motortrend.com/news/lexus-lfa-concept-ev-sports-car-first-look

First Look: The Lexus LFA Concept Signals an All-Electric Future for the Brand First Look: The Lexus LFA Concept Is An All-Electric Sports Car By Another Name LFA is back with a electric powertrain replacing the iconic supercar's V-10. Edward Loh Writer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 05, 2025 See All 37 Photos 37 Lexus has just revealed (again) what it is now calling the LFA Concept, a car that it already essentially showed at two previous auto shows as the Lexus Sport Concept . But now, several new details are emerging in addition renaming it the LFA (something we speculated about back at the Sport Concept's first reveal at Pebble Beach in August), namely that it will be all-electric powered and it's being developed in parallel with Toyota Gazoo Racing’s GR GT supercar and GR GT3 race car programs. 0:00 / 0:00 The concept reflects Toyota Motor Corporation Chairman Akio Toyoda’s directive to preserve and evolve core vehicle-development skills for the next generation. While the company is positioning the LFA Concept as a continuation of the lineage that includes the Toyota 2000GT and the original Lexus LFA, the future flagship EV is the clearest statement yet that Lexus is going all-in on electrification. See All 37 Photos 37 The LFA Concept is built around three shared development priorities: a low center of gravity, low mass paired with high body rigidity, and advanced aerodynamic performance. It uses Toyota's first high-rigidity all-aluminum spaceframe, which is shared with the GR GT and GR GT3. No details were provided about the size of the battery pack or its chemistry, but rumors persist that Toyota has made significant advances in solid state batteries, and the new LFA would be the perfect platform to launch such technology from our perspective. Same goes for the location of the batteries within the vehicle. Given the emphasis on a low center of gravity, we assume that the batteries will be integrated into the floorpan that is the current EV standard. However, this runs counter to goal of optimizing the driving position, as an EV's skateboard chassis tends to elevate the floor and seating positions within the vehicle. Lexus says its packaging approach aims to combine the dynamic capability of the race-influenced GR twins with a distinctly sensual, yet timeless design. See All 37 Photos 37 Stylistically, the LFA Concept is a dead ringer for the already revealed Sport Concept concepts (the Japan Mobility Show version is pictured below), inside and out. Lexus says it inherits the proportions and sculptural cues of the original LFA but applies them to an EV-optimized package. Its low, flowing silhouette is a marked departure from the hard edges of the GR GT and GR GT3. The concept's classic coupe proportions create a form Lexus describes as a “universal” sports-car shape intended to resonate across regions and eras. The LFA Concept measures 184.6 inches long, 80.3 inches wide, and 47.0 inches tall, with a 107.3-inch wheelbase and two-seat configuration. One major theme of the LFA Concept is “Discover Immersion,” which is the focus on enhancing the driver’s sense of connection, starting with its swoopy, sensual proportions. The interior concentrates functional elements around the driver’s seat, using a minimalist layout intended to enable intuitive operation. The funky, yoke-style steering wheel shape is apparently designed to eliminate the need to re-grip while driving and places switches where they can be used by touch alone. When we first saw this car debut as the Lexus Sport Concept at Monterey Car Week 2025 and then again at the recent Japan Mobility Show 2025, we didn't know what to think. We thought it might replace the Lexus LC500 and come in with plug-in hybrid powertrain. Now that Lexus has confirmed that the car is indeed the new LFA and that it's going electric, we'll be sure to keep you updated on its underlying technology and specifications as we know more. See All 37 Photos 37 Edward Loh I used to go kick tires with my dad at local car dealerships. I was the kid quizzing the sales guys on horsepower and 0-60 times, while Dad wandered around undisturbed. When the salesmen finally cornered him, I'd grab as much of the glossy product literature as I could carry. One that still stands out to this day: the beautiful booklet on the Mitsubishi Eclipse GSX that favorably compared it to the Porsches of the era. I would pore over the prose, pictures, specs, trim levels, even the fine print, never once thinking that I might someday be responsible for the asterisked figures "*as tested by Motor Trend magazine." My parents, immigrants from Hong Kong, worked their way from St. Louis, Missouri (where I was born) to sunny Camarillo, California, in the early 1970s. Along the way, Dad managed to get us into some interesting, iconic family vehicles, including a 1973 Super Beetle (first year of the curved windshield!), 1976 Volvo 240, the 1977 Chevrolet Caprice Classic station wagon, and 1984 VW Vanagon. Dad imbued a love of sports cars and fast sedans as well. I remember sitting on the package shelf of his 1981 Mazda RX-7, listening to him explain to my Mom - for Nth time - what made the rotary engine so special. I remember bracing myself for the laggy whoosh of his turbo diesel Mercedes-Benz 300D, and later, his '87 Porsche Turbo. We were a Toyota family in my coming-of-age years. At 15 years and 6 months, I scored 100 percent on my driving license test, behind the wheel of Mom's 1991 Toyota Previa. As a reward, I was handed the keys to my brother's 1986 Celica GT-S. Six months and three speeding tickets later, I was booted off the family insurance policy and into a 1983 Toyota 4x4 (Hilux, baby). It took me through the rest of college and most of my time at USC, where I worked for the Daily Trojan newspaper and graduated with a biology degree and business minor. Cars took a back seat during my stint as a science teacher for Teach for America. I considered a third year of teaching high school science, coaching volleyball, and helping out with the newspaper and yearbook, but after two years of telling teenagers to follow their dreams, when I wasn't following mine, I decided to pursue a career in freelance photography. After starving for 6 months, I was picked up by a tiny tuning magazine in Orange County that was covering "The Fast and the Furious" subculture years before it went mainstream. I went from photographer-for-hire to editor-in-chief in three years, and rewarded myself with a clapped-out 1989 Nissan 240SX. I subsequently picked up a 1985 Toyota Land Cruiser (FJ60) to haul parts and camera gear. Both vehicles took me to a more mainstream car magazine, where I first sipped from the firehose of press cars. Soon after, the Land Cruiser was abandoned. After a short stint there, I became editor-in-chief of the now-defunct Sport Compact Car just after turning 30. My editorial director at the time was some long-haired dude with a funny accent named Angus MacKenzie. After 18 months learning from the best, Angus asked me to join Motor Trend as senior editor. That was in 2007, and I've loved every second ever since. Read More Share You May Also Like