https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Cars

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal maintenance status: (December 2018) This portal is manually maintained by Typ932 . Please contact these user(s) when you plan to make significant changes. This portal's subpages should be checked . Subpages that are no longer needed should be reported here . Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software , and seek consensus before making major changes. Learn how to update the maintenance information here . Wikipedia portal for content related to Cars The Cars Portal The Ford Model T , produced from 1908 to 1927, is widely credited with being the first mass-affordable automobile, and it remains one of the best-selling cars of all time . A car , or an automobile , is a motor vehicle with wheels . Most definitions of cars state that they run primarily on roads , seat 1-8 people, have four wheels, and mainly transport people rather than cargo . There are over 1.6 billion cars in use worldwide as of  2025. The French inventor Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot built the first steam-powered road vehicle in 1769, while the Swiss inventor François Isaac de Rivaz designed and constructed the first internal combustion-powered automobile in 1808. The modern car—a practical, marketable automobile for everyday use—was invented in 1886, when the German inventor Carl Benz patented his Benz Patent-Motorwagen . Commercial cars became widely available during the 20th century. The 1901 Oldsmobile Curved Dash and the 1908 Ford Model T , both American cars, are widely considered the first mass-produced and mass-affordable cars, respectively. Cars were rapidly adopted in the US, where they replaced horse-drawn carriages . In Europe and other parts of the world, demand for automobiles did not increase until after World War II . In the 21st century, car usage is still increasing rapidly, especially in China, India, and other newly industrialised countries . Cars have controls for driving , parking , passenger comfort, and a variety of lamps . Over the decades, additional features and controls have been added to vehicles, making them progressively more complex. These include rear-reversing cameras , air conditioning , navigation systems , and in-car entertainment . Most cars in use in the early 2020s are propelled by an internal combustion engine , fueled by the combustion of fossil fuels . Electric cars , which were invented early in the history of the car , became commercially available in the 2000s and widespread in the 2020s. The transition from fossil fuel-powered cars to electric cars features prominently in most climate change mitigation scenarios . ( Full article... ) Read more Refresh with new selections below (purge) Recognized content - show another Entries here consist of Good and Featured articles, which meet a core set of high editorial standards. The Sunbeam Tiger is a high-performance V8 version of the British Rootes Group 's Sunbeam Alpine roadster , designed in part by American car designer and racing driver Carroll Shelby and produced from 1964 until 1967. Shelby had carried out a similar V8 conversion on the AC Cobra , and hoped to be offered the contract to produce the Tiger at his facility in the United States.  Rootes decided instead to contract the assembly work to Jensen at West Bromwich in England, and pay Shelby a royalty on every car produced. Two major versions of the Tiger were built: the Mark I (1964–1967) was fitted with the 260 cu in (4.3 L) Ford V8 ; the Mark II, of which only 633 were built in the final year of Tiger production, was fitted with the larger displacement Ford 289 cu in (4.7 L) engine. Two prototype and extensively modified versions of the Mark I competed in the 1964 24 Hours of Le Mans , but neither completed the race. Rootes also entered the Tiger in European rallies with some success, and for two years it was the American Hot Rod Association's national record holder over a quarter-mile drag strip . ( Full article... ) List of recognized articles Electric vehicle warning sounds Talbot Tagora Columbus Buggy Company Chevrolet Cobalt SS Renault Samsung Motors Ramblin' Wreck Brabham BT19 Ford Piquette Avenue Plant Holden Brabham Holden Commodore (VE) Maserati MC12 Ambulance Chrysler 180 Muntz Jet Simca Vedette Flexible-fuel vehicles in Brazil Reynolds and Reynolds Ferrari P4/5 by Pininfarina Lotus T128 (Le Mans Prototype) Ford Pinto Jaguar XJ220 Cars (film) Lexus LS Porsche RS Spyder Ford Falcon (BA) The Holy Trinity (The Grand Tour) Brabham BT46 Aston Martin DB9 American automobile industry in the 1950s Duesenberg Model A Mitsubishi i Cog (advertisement) AIL Storm BMW M1 Procar Championship Speed Buggy Lexus Citroën C3 Picasso Wheelie and the Chopper Bunch Toyota TS040 Hybrid Toyota TS030 Hybrid Mitsubishi i-MiEV Holden Commodore Chrysler Turbine Car Talbot Samba Toyota Aurion (XV40) Lancia LC2 Howmet TX Selected article - show another Mercedes-Benz ( German pronunciation: [mɛʁˌtseːdəs ˈbɛnts, -dɛs -] ⓘ ), commonly referred to simply as Mercedes and occasionally as Benz , is a German automotive brand that was founded in 1926. Mercedes-Benz AG (a subsidiary of the Mercedes-Benz Group , established in 2019) is based in Stuttgart , Baden-Württemberg , Germany. Mercedes-Benz AG manufactures luxury vehicles and light commercial vehicles , all branded under the Mercedes-Benz name. From November 2019 onwards, the production of Mercedes-Benz-branded heavy commercial vehicles (trucks and buses) has been managed by Daimler Truck , which separated from the Mercedes-Benz Group to form an independent entity at the end of 2021. In 2018, Mercedes-Benz became the world’s largest premium vehicle brand, with a sales volume of 2.31 million passenger cars. ( Full article... ) List of selected articles DMC DeLorean Mini Mercedes-Benz C-Class (W205) Mini Moke Daimler Motoren Gesellschaft Volkswagen Beetle Le Mans Prototype BMW General Motors Chrysler Ford Motor Company Maserati Lamborghini Volkswagen Hyundai Motor Company Pickup truck Electric car Buick Toyota Honda Ford Taurus Autobianchi Primula Lancia Flaminia Sedan (automobile) Steam car Cadillac Volkswagen emissions scandal New York International Auto Show SAE International Toyota Corolla Checker Motors Corporation Beam's Shell Service Station and Office Huning Highlands Conoco Service Station Auto show History of the automobile History of the electric vehicle Chevrolet Impala Panhard List of most expensive cars sold at auction Gatter Autowerk Reichstadt Hudson Super Six Lamborghini Gallardo Bizzarrini Lamborghini V12 Alfa Romeo Targa Florio Mazda3 Mazda Lincoln Town Car Trabant Automotive industry List of motor vehicle awards Jaguar Land Rover Stellantis PSA Group Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Subaru Japan Automotive Hall of Fame Prince Motor Company ACEA agreement edit Selected picture of the day 2004 Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor 2004 Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor Selected biography - show another Edward Thomas Welburn Jr. (born December 14, 1950) is an automobile designer and former General Motors ' Vice President of Global Design, a role in which he served from 2003 to 2016 and the same position that Harley Earl and Bill Mitchell once held. To date, Welburn still holds the distinction of having been the highest-ranking Black-American in the global automotive industry . He has overseen the development of recent GM products, such as the Chevrolet Corvette , Cadillac Escalade and Chevrolet Camaro . Welburn has overseen groundbreaking concepts such as:the Oldsmobile Aerotech , Cadillac Ciel , and Buick Avista . Welburn was also the lead GM designer on the Chaparral 2X Vision GT, a concept car designed for the video game Gran Turismo 6 . The car features 4-wheel steer and active aerodynamics, claimed to be similar to a wingsuit , and was made available in December 2014. ( Full article... ) List of selected biographies J. B. Straubel Bertha Benz Nikolaus Otto Michelle Christensen Leilani Munter Elwood Haynes Karl-Gottfried Nordmann Henry Ford Sabine Schmitz Thomas H. White Ferdinand Porsche Ferruccio Lamborghini Thierry Bolloré Carlos Ghosn Michael Manley (CEO) Dieter Zetsche Sergio Marchionne Carlos Tavares Ferdinand Piëch Louis Schweitzer (businessman) Carl Benz Shōjirō Ishibashi André Michelin Tatsuo Hasegawa Soichiro Honda Kiichiro Toyoda Takeo Fujisawa Osamu Suzuki (businessman) Shinichiro Sakurai Kenichi Yamamoto (engineer) Kjell Qvale More biography articles edit On this day December 29 1929 — Famed engine designer Wilhelm Maybach dies in Stuttgart 1936 — Aggravated workers begin the Flint Sit-Down Strike edit Did you know... ...that the racing version of the Dauer 962 Le Mans , winner of 1994 24 Hours of Le Mans , is a roadcar converted from a Porsche 962 racecar, which dominated Le Mans , Group C and IMSA during the 1980s? ...that the 25 Millionth VW Golf rolled off the production line in Wolfsburg in March 2007? The first Golf started production in 1974, 33 years later the 1.4 litre TSI version became the 25 Millionth car. ...that the 2011 Ford Crown Victoria was the last car to offer a cassette tape player as an option? ...that the first production turbocharged cars were General Motors ' A-body 1962 Chevrolet Corvair and Oldsmobile F-85 ? ...that Jeep introduced the 1993 Grand Cherokee and 2007 Wrangler in the same way — by driving them through a plate glass window? ...that a small number of Renault 20s , badged as Dacia 2000 , were made in the 1980s by Dacia in Romania for Romanian communist dignitaries of that time? ...that the Autobianchi Primula was the Fiat's first automobile with the front-wheel drive , transverse engine setup and rack and pinion steering? ...that the Plymouth Sundance is a liftback , even though the outside appearance might suggest that it is a sedan ? ...that the name Volvo really means 'I Roll?' That's how Volvo rolls. edit Selected quote of the day When I see an Alfa Romeo go by, I tip my hat. Henry Ford talking with Ugo Gobbato in 1939 Topics v t e Car design Classification By size Micro Kei Subcompact / Supermini Family Compact Mid-size Full-size Custom Baja Bug Hot rod Lead sled Lowrider Sandrail T-bucket Luxury Compact executive Executive Personal Minivan / MPV Compact Leisure Mini SUV Compact Crossover (CUV) Mini Coupe SUV Sports Grand tourer Hot hatch Muscle Pony Sport compact Sports sedan Super Go-kart Other Antique Classic Economy Ute Van Vintage car EU A-segment B-segment C-segment D-segment E-segment F-segment J-segment M-segment S-segment Body styles 2+2 Baquet Barchetta Berlinetta Brougham Cabrio coach Cab over Cabriolet / Convertible / Drophead coupe Coupe Coupé de Ville / Sedanca de Ville Coupé utility Fastback Hardtop Hatchback Kammback Landaulet Liftback Limousine Microvan Minibus Multi-stop truck Notchback Panel van Phaeton Pickup truck Quad coupé Retractable hardtop Roadster / Spider / Spyder Runabout Saloon / Sedan Sedan delivery/Panel van Shooting brake Station wagon Targa top Torpedo Touring Town (Coupé de Ville) T-top Vis-à-vis Specialized vehicles All-terrain vehicle Amphibious Connected Driverless (autonomous) Dune buggy Go-kart Gyrocar Pedal car Personal rapid transit Police car Flying car Taxicab Tow truck Voiturette Propulsion Alternative fuel Autogas Biodiesel Biofuel Biogasoline Biogas Compressed natural gas Diesel Electric ( battery NEV ) Ethanol ( E85 ) Fossil fuel Fuel cell Fuel gas Natural gas Gasoline / petrol ( direct injection ) Homogeneous charge compression ignition Hybrid ( plug-in ) Hydrogen Internal combustion Liquid nitrogen Liquified petroleum gas Steam Drive wheels Front-wheel Rear-wheel Two-wheel Four-wheel Six-wheel Eight-wheel Ten-wheel Twelve-wheel Engine position Front Mid Rear Layout (engine / drive) Front-front Front mid-front Rear-front Front-rear Rear mid-rear Rear-rear Front-four-wheel Mid-four-wheel Rear-four-wheel Dual motor-four-wheel Individual wheel drive Engine configuration ( internal combustion ) Boxer Flat Four-stroke H-block Reciprocating Single-cylinder Straight Two-stroke V (Vee) W engine Wankel Portal Category Template:EC car classification v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category v t e Powertrain Part of the Automobile series Automotive engine Diesel engine Electric Fuel cell Hybrid ( Plug-in hybrid ) Internal combustion engine Petrol engine Steam engine Transmission Automatic transmission Chain drive Direct-drive Clutch Constant-velocity joint Continuously variable transmission Coupling Differential Direct-shift gearbox Drive shaft Dual-clutch transmission Drive wheel Automated manual transmission Electrorheological clutch Epicyclic gearing Fluid coupling Friction drive Gearshift Giubo Hotchkiss drive Limited-slip differential Locking differential Manual transmission Manumatic Parking pawl Park-by-wire Preselector gearbox Semi-automatic transmission Shift-by-wire Torque converter Transaxle Transfer box Transmission control unit Universal joint Wheels and tires Wheel hub assembly Wheel Rim Alloy wheel Hubcap Tire Off-road Racing slick Radial Rain Run-flat Snow Spare Tubeless Hybrid Electric motor Hybrid vehicle drivetrain Electric generator Alternator Portal Category v t e Chassis control system Part of the Automobile series Suspension Anti-roll bar (sway bar) Axle Axle track Beam axle Camber angle Car handling Coil spring De Dion tube Double wishbone Hydrolastic ( Hydragas ) Hydropneumatic Independent suspension Leaf spring Live axle MacPherson strut Multi-link suspension Panhard rod Shock absorber Swing axle Toe angle Torsion bar Trailing arm Unsprung mass Watt's linkage Wheel alignment Wheelbase Steering Ackermann steering geometry Caster angle Kingpin Oversteer Power steering Rack and pinion Torque steering Understeer Brakes Automatic braking Anti-lock braking system Active rollover protection Brake bleeding Brake fade Brake fluid Brake lining Combined braking system Disc brake Drum brake Electric park brake Electronic brakeforce distribution Electronic stability control Engine braking Hydraulic brake Hydraulic fluid Inboard brake Parking brake Regenerative brake Vacuum servo Roadwheels Tires (Tyres) Alloy wheel Custom wheel Drive wheel Hubcap Outline of tires Rostyle wheel Spinner Whitewall tire Wire wheels Portal Category v t e Automotive industry Car Motor vehicle By country Africa Egypt Kenya Morocco Nigeria South Africa List of manufacturers Asia Bangladesh China manufacturers list , manufacturers detailed India manufacturers Indonesia Iran Japan manufacturers Malaysia manufacturers North Korea Pakistan Philippines Russia South Korea manufacturers Taiwan manufacturers Thailand Uzbekistan Vietnam List of manufacturers Europe Belarus Bulgaria Croatia Czech Republic manufacturers France manufacturers Germany manufacturers Hungary Ireland Italy manufacturers Netherlands Poland manufacturers Romania Russia manufacturers Serbia Slovakia Spain manufacturers Sweden manufacturers Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom manufacturers List of manufacturers North America Canada manufacturers Mexico United States manufacturers South America Argentina manufacturers Brazil manufacturers Oceania Australia manufacturers New Zealand Data Automobile sales by model Best-selling automobiles Countries by motor vehicle production Countries by vehicles per capita Top manufacturers History Automotive industry crisis of 2008–2010 History of the automobile History of the internal combustion engine History of the motorcycle Timeline of motor vehicle brands Manufacturers Automobile manufacturers marques by parent company Bus manufacturers Motorcycle manufacturers Truck manufacturers Minor automotive manufacturing groups Organisations Association for Standardisation of Automation and Measuring Systems European Automobile Manufacturers Association Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d'Automobiles Related topics Auto and motor shows Automotive design Automotive engineering Facelift Rebadging list of vehicles Debadging Glossary Category List Portal v t e Private transport Motorized vehicular Car Motorboat Electric bicycle Electric skateboard Hovercraft Motorcycle Moped Scooter (motorcycle) Mobility scooter Private jet Motor ship Submarine Motorized wheelchair Private railroad car Private spaceflight Non-motorized vehicular Bicycle / Cycling Pack animal Roller skates Scooter Skateboard Wheelchair Horse-drawn vehicle Hot air balloon Vehicles for hire Car rental Auto rickshaw Boda-boda Cycle rickshaw Gondola Hackney carriage Motorcycle taxi Paratransit Personal rapid transit Pulled rickshaw Ridesharing company Share taxi Taxicab Shared Shared transport Carsharing Carpooling Car jockey Flexible carpooling Peer-to-peer ridesharing Slugging Vanpool Bicycle-sharing Non vehicular Ice skates Inline skates Running Stair Climbing Swimming Walking Stair Climbing Alternatives Public transport Personal public transport Modal share Personal rapid transit General images The following are images from various car-related articles on Wikipedia. Image 1 1955 Chevrolet Bel Air convertible (from History of the automobile ) Image 2 1885-built Benz Patent-Motorwagen , the first modern car—a practical, marketable automobile for everyday use (from History of the automobile ) Image 3 Rolls-Royce Phantom III (from History of the automobile ) Image 4 Road congestion is an issue in many major cities (pictured is Chang'an Avenue in Beijing ). (from Car ) Image 5 The Toyota Corolla is the best-selling car of all-time . (from Car ) Image 6 2011 Nissan Leaf electric car (from Car ) Image 7 1924 Doble Model E (from History of the automobile ) Image 8 Carl Benz , the inventor of the modern car (from Car ) Image 9 Ransom E. Olds founded Olds Motor Vehicle Company (Oldsmobile) in 1897. (from Car ) Image 10 Result of a serious car collision (from Car ) Image 11 Car exhaust gas is one type of pollution Image 12 1982 Toyota Camry (from History of the automobile ) Image 13 The Ford Model T (foreground) and Volkswagen Beetle (background) are among the most mass-produced car models in history. (from History of the automobile ) Image 14 The German Flocken Elektrowagen of 1888, perhaps the first electric car in the world (from History of the automobile ) Image 15 A replica of Richard Trevithick's 1801 road locomotive 'Puffing Devil' (from History of the automobile ) Image 16 The Selden Road-Engine (from History of the automobile ) Image 17 The Flocken Elektrowagen was the first four-wheeled electric car (from Car ) Image 18 1974 Citroën DS (from History of the automobile ) Image 19 1926 Bugatti Type 35 (from History of the automobile ) Image 20 The Präsident automobile (from History of the automobile ) Image 21 Isotta Fraschini Tipo 8A (from History of the automobile ) Image 22 1929 Austin Seven (from History of the automobile ) Image 23 Panel for fuses and circuit breakers  (from Car ) Image 24 A Stanley Steamer racecar in 1903. In 1906, a similar Stanley Rocket set the world land speed record at 205.5 km/h (127.7 mph) at Daytona Beach Road Course. (from History of the automobile ) Image 25 Model-T Ford car parked near the Geelong Art Gallery at its launch in Australia in 1915 (from History of the automobile ) Image 26 The weight of the low battery stabilises the car. This is a dual-motor, four-wheel-drive layout but many cars only have one motor. (from Car ) Image 27 In the Ford Model T the left-side hand lever sets the rear wheel parking brakes and puts the transmission in neutral. The lever to the right controls the throttle. The lever on the left of the steering column is for ignition timing. The left foot pedal changes the two forward gears while the centre pedal controls reverse. The right pedal is the brake. (from Car ) Image 28 A robotic Volkswagen Passat shown at Stanford University is a driverless car . (from Car ) Image 29 Trucks' share of US vehicles produced, has tripled since 1975. Though vehicle fuel efficiency has increased within each category, the overall trend toward less efficient types of vehicles has offset some of the benefits of greater fuel economy and reductions in pollution and carbon dioxide emissions. Without the shift towards SUVs, energy use per unit distance could have fallen 30% more than it did from 2010 to 2022. (from Car ) Image 30 Stuttgart , a cradle of the car with Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach working there at the Daimler Motoren Gesellschaft and place of the modern day headquarters of Mercedes-Benz Group and Porsche (from Car ) Image 31 Steam machine of Verbiest, in 1678 ( Ferdinand Verbiest ) (from Car ) Image 32 1929 Alfa Romeo 6C (from History of the automobile ) Image 33 Bertha Benz , the first long distance driver (from Car ) Image 34 Audi A4 daytime running lights (from Car ) Image 35 The Vélib' in Paris, France , is the largest bikesharing system outside China. (from Car ) Image 36 Cugnot's steam wagon, the second (1771) version (from History of the automobile ) Image 37 A car being assembled in a factory (from Car ) Image 38 The first automobile in Japan, a French Panhard-Levassor , in 1898 (from History of the automobile ) Image 39 The Toyota Corolla is the world's bestselling nameplate. (from History of the automobile ) Image 40 1946 GAZ-M20 Pobeda , one of the first mass-produced cars with a pontoon design (from History of the automobile ) Image 41 A Chevrolet Suburban extended-length SUV weighs 3,300 kilograms (7,200 lb) (gross weight). (from Car ) Image 42 1987 Renault Espace (from History of the automobile ) Image 43 The original Benz Patent-Motorwagen , the first modern car, built in 1885 and awarded the patent for the concept (from Car ) Image 44 1959 Morris Mini-Minor (from History of the automobile ) Image 45 A Tesla Model Y electric car, the world's best-selling electric car, and the best selling nameplate in 2023. (from History of the automobile ) Image 46 Ford Motor Company automobile assembly line in the 1920s (from Car ) Image 47 The second Marcus car of 1888 (from History of the automobile ) Image 48 Fiat 4 HP , the first car model produced by Italian manufacturer Fiat in 1899 (from History of the automobile ) Image 49 Volkswagen Beetle (from History of the automobile ) Image 50 Cugnot's 1771 fardier à vapeur , as preserved at the Musée des Arts et Métiers , Paris (from Car ) edit Categories Category puzzle Select [►] to view subcategories Cars Cars by country Cars by period Car-related lists Set index articles on cars Car body styles Car brands Cancelled automobiles Car classifications Car crime Car culture Green cars History of the automobile Individual cars Car models Car organizations Car ownership Car performance Auto racing Automotive terminology Images of cars edit Things you can do to help Tasks clipboard If you wish to help, you can: Expand a short article - There are many short articles that require additional information. Update the car news - The car news needs to be up-to-date with current automotive events. Update the selected biography - Add a great biography to the portal. Find better selected pictures - We need pictures of the beautiful cars the world has to offer. - Upload picture for requested photographs of cars Join the WikiProject Automobiles - A place dedicated for enthusiasts dedicated to improving automobile coverage. Update the selected quote - Famous quotes from the past. Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Commons Free media repository Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Discover Wikipedia using portals List of all portals The arts portal Biography portal Current events portal Geography portal History portal Mathematics portal Science portal Society portal Technology portal Random portal WikiProject Portals Purge server cache Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Cars&oldid=1317857763 " Categories : All portals Cars portal Cars portal quote pages Automotive portals Cars Hidden categories: Pages using the Phonos extension Manually maintained portal pages from December 2018 All manually maintained portal pages Portals with untriaged subpages from December 2018 All portals with untriaged subpages Portals with named maintainer Pages with German IPA Pages including recorded pronunciations