https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69667678/genesis-g90-wingback-luxury-performance-wagon

VIEW GALLERY Genesis Hyundai's luxury Genesis division is looking to add coachbuilt performance versions of the G90 sedan, specifically this Wingback Wagon concept. It and the X Gran Coupe ride on the same chassis as the G90 sedan. Production was not officially. When Genesis rolled out the mighty G90 Wingback at Paul Ricard last month as part of the GV60 Magma production debut, jaws could be heard smacking against floors around the globe. Internet commenters with negative credit ratings swore they’d buy Wingbacks. Some swore they’d buy the wagon and the X Gran Coupe Hyundai’s luxury division had rolled out in Seoul last April. Even people who could afford them wanted one or the other, or both. You couldn’t blame them. The pair make a compelling argument for luxury and performance, and they might even be affordable. Both the X Gran Coupe and Wingback wagon ride on production Genesis G90 sedan underpinnings down to the 125.2-inch wheelbase. That new and mostly unique architecture is a dedicated rear-wheel-drive luxury platform. Making it into a luxury performance platform couldn’t be all that hard, could it? Related Stories Genesis X Gran Concepts Ditch Doors at Seoul 2024 Genesis G90 Punches Above its Weight The chassis can run existing Hyundai/Genesis 3.3-liter twin-turbocharged V6 and 5.0-liter V8 engines without any modifications. Those powerplants make 365 hp and 420 hp respectively, and could certainly be tweaked easily enough to make a lot more. Genesis execs have confirmed that engineers are already working on a Magma version of the G90 sedan, as well as a Wingback wagon and X Gran Coupe. “We are preparing this platform for high performance,” Manfred Harrer, head of the Genesis and Performance Tech Unit said. “And we are really committed to these designs.” VIEW GALLERY Genesis The Wingback gets wider fenders, larger air inlets, dramatic rear diffuser, spoiler, and wide tires on 22s. An SUV, however, is out of the question, according to Chief Creative Officer Luc Donckerwolke. “At the moment there is, let’s say, a multiplication of SUVs. And this fast growth will create a saturation,” said Donckerwolke. “This is when other typologies of cars are going to become attractive again. This is why I strongly believe in not having a typology monoculture.” Pricing for a Wingback wagon could even be reasonable, at least for the class. The current G90 sedan runs from $94,195 to $107,895. Add a wagon and a coupe and all you’re paying for is some sheetmetal, right? Hot! Magma Gets Hot with Genesis GV60 Consider just the wagon competition: Audi RS6 Avant: $130,700 to $160,000; 621 hp 4.0-liter twin-turbo V8 with quattro drive; 0-60 mph in 3.3 seconds AMG E 53 Hybrid: $93,000 to $94,000; 604 hp turbocharged inline-six hybrid; 0-60 mph in 3.8 seconds AMG E 63 S Wagon: $122,000; 603 hp twin-turbo 4.0-liter V8; 0-60 mph in 3.4 seconds BMW M5 Touring: $123,000 to $130,000; 717 hp 4.4-liter twin-turbo V8; 0-60 mph in 3.4 seconds VIEW GALLERY Genesis Only a few details of the interior were shown. Surely then, a Genesis Wingback made under the new Magma performance logo is inevitable? Genesis president and chief creative officer Luc Donckerwolke thinks so. “It’s time to talk about elevating Magma to the coachwork potential in tailoring masterpieces for very demanding customers,” he said at the Wingback’s unveiling. Wait, coachwork? As in unique bodies? Those get expensive. Let’s assume it was marketing hyperbole talking. “The X Grand Coupe Concept and the G90 Concept are two examples of what we can craft,” Donckerwolke continued. “You dream it, we build it.” Not a Wagon 2025 AMG GT 63 S E Performance Is a Hyper Hybrid He might have been talking about interior colors or something, not unique bodies like coachbuilders of the 1930s used to make upon getting the rolling Duesenberg chassis and powertrain. “Wingback is giving you the first glimpse into Magma and its spectrum of typology. Dr. Evil Magma. Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, sports functionality paired with an aerodynamic and elegant body. Derived from G90 flagship. Magma is the materialization of the iron fist in a velvet glove. Demonstrating that Magma is the culmination of the Genesis lineup. The best of the best. (These concepts) add elements of sophistication, elegance and sportiness to the proven formula as only Genesis can. These two concepts prove that Magma is much more than a color. It offers contrast between performance and luxury. In other words, Genesis amplified. Magma does not shout, it invites. It is power delivered with precision and control. We are ready. Genesis is ready.” Mark Vaughn Mark Vaughn grew up in a Ford family and spent many hours holding a trouble light over a straight-six miraculously fed by a single-barrel carburetor while his father cursed the Blue Oval, all its products and everyone who ever worked there. This was his introduction to objective automotive criticism. He started writing for City News Service in Los Angeles, then moved to Europe and became editor of a car magazine called, creatively, Auto. He decided Auto should cover Formula 1, sports prototypes and touring cars—no one stopped him! From there he interviewed with Autoweek at the 1989 Frankfurt motor show and has been with us ever since.