https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Spaceflight

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikimedia portal Portal maintenance status: (April 2019) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software . Learn how to update the maintenance information here . The Spaceflight Portal Main Lists and timelines WikiProject Spaceflight Discussions edit Introduction Launch of STS-1 , the first space shuttle flight Spaceflight (or space flight ) is an application of astronautics to fly objects, usually spacecraft , into or through outer space , either with or without humans on board . Most spaceflight is uncrewed and conducted mainly with spacecraft such as satellites in orbit around Earth , but also includes space probes for flights beyond Earth orbit. Such spaceflights operate either by telerobotic or autonomous control. The first spaceflights began in the 1950s with the launches of the Soviet Sputnik satellites and American Explorer and Vanguard missions. Human spaceflight programs include the Soyuz , Shenzhou , the past Apollo Moon landing and the Space Shuttle programs . Other current spaceflight are conducted to the International Space Station and to China's Tiangong Space Station . ( Full article... ) About the Spaceflight Portal View new selections below (purge) edit Selected article The Saturn V (pronounced "Saturn Five") was a multistage liquid-fuel expendable rocket used by NASA for Apollo and Skylab missions between 1967 and 1972. In total NASA launched twelve Saturn V rockets, plus one derived Saturn INT-21 , with no loss of payload. It remains the largest and most powerful launch vehicle ever brought to operational status, in terms of height, mass and payload capacity. The Soviet Energia , which flew two test missions in the late 1980s before being cancelled, had slightly more takeoff thrust. The largest production model of the Saturn family of rockets, the Saturn V was designed under the direction of Wernher von Braun at the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama , with Boeing , North American Aviation , Douglas Aircraft Company , and IBM as the lead contractors. The three stages of the Saturn V were developed by various NASA contractors, but following a sequence of mergers and takeovers all of them are now owned by Boeing. More selected articles Read more edit Next scheduled launch For a full schedule of launches and deep-space rendezvous, see 2025 in spaceflight . edit Selected biography Robert Laurel "Bob" Crippen (born September 11, 1937), ( Capt , USN , Ret.), is a retired American naval officer and aviator , test pilot , aerospace engineer , and former astronaut for the United States Department of Defense and for NASA . An aviator with the U.S. Navy , Crippen was originally chosen to the U.S. Air Force 's Manned Orbiting Laboratory program, a project involving a military space station, in 1966. When that project was canceled in 1969, Crippen was transferred to NASA. He was selected as pilot of the first Space Shuttle mission, STS-1 , along with commander John Young , which he flew on April 12-14, 1981, on the orbiter Columbia . Crippen would likewise become the first Shuttle pilot to be promoted to commander, leading the STS-7 mission on orbiter Challenger in June 1983. He would command two other missions ( STS-41-C and STS-41-G ) in 1984. He was training for another mission when the Challenger disaster occurred, and was re-assigned as Deputy Director of Kennedy Space Center in 1987. Crippen would serve as the Director of Kennedy Space Center from January 1992 until January 1995, when he left NASA. He would hold executive positions at Lockheed Martin and Thiokol before retiring in 2001. More selected biographies Read more edit Selected picture A Hermes rocket . Credit: NASA - image source The first Hermes A-1 test rocket, fired at White Sands Proving Ground on May 1, 1950. Built by General Electric based on the Wasserfall surface-to-air missile , the Hermes A-1 was capable of reaching an altitude of 150 km. More selected pictures Read more edit On This Day 29 December 1966 - A Thor-Agena launches the OPS-1584 satellite. 1971 - A Vostok-2M launches a Meteor satellite. 1973 - A Kosmos-3M launches the Kosmos 627 satellite. 1982 - A Kosmos-3M launches the Kosmos 1427 satellite. 1983 - A Proton-K launches three GLONASS satellites. 1987 - A Soyuz-U launches the Kosmos 1907 satellite. 1988 - A Soyuz-U launches the Kosmos 1986 satellite. 1992 - A Soyuz-U launches the Kosmos 2229 satellite. 1994 - A Soyuz-U launches the Kosmos 2305 satellite. 2002 - A Long March 2F launches the Shenzhou 4 spacecraft. 2002 - A Proton-M launches the Nimiq 2 satellite. 2003 - A Long March 2C launches the TC-1 satellite. 2005 - A Proton-M launches the AMC-23 satellite. 2009 - A Proton-M / Briz-M launches the DirecTV-12 satellite. 2010 - An Ariane 5 ECA launches the Hispasat 1E and Koreasat 6 satellites. View: Today | December | All edit Did you know... ... that Blue Origin NS-31 recently became the first all-female spaceflight in 62 years? Neil Armstrong on the Moon …that the original videos of the Apollo 11 astronauts walking on the Moon (pictured) were lost after the mission, and were reported to have been found in June 2009? ...that in 1971 the USSR launched Salyut 1 , the first space station ? …the record for the longest crewed spaceflight stands at 437.7 days, which was set by Valeriy Polyakov aboard Mir ? edit Key topics v t e Spaceflight General Astrodynamics History Timeline Space Race Records Accidents and incidents Space launch Space policy Australia China European Space Agency European Union India Japan North Korea South Korea Russia Soviet Union United States Space law Outer Space Treaty Rescue Agreement Space Liability Convention Registration Convention Moon Treaty Space warfare Space command Space force Militarisation of space Private spaceflight Billionaire space race Applications Astronomy Earth observation Archaeology Imagery and mapping Reconnaissance Weather and environment monitoring Communications satellite Internet Radio Telephone Television Satellite navigation Commercial use of space Space launch market competition Space architecture Space exploration Space research Space technology Space weather Human spaceflight General Astronaut commercial Life-support system Animals in space Bioastronautics Space suit Extravehicular activity Overview effect Weightlessness Space toilet Space tourism Space colonization Space diving Programs Vostok Mercury Voskhod Gemini Soyuz Apollo Skylab Apollo–Soyuz Space Shuttle Mir Shuttle–Mir International Space Station Shenzhou Tiangong New Shepard Artemis Health issues Effect of spaceflight on the human body Space adaptation syndrome Health threat from cosmic rays Space psychology Psychological and sociological effects Space and survival Space medicine Space nursing Space sexology Spacecraft Launch vehicle Rocket Space capsule Orbital module Reentry capsule Service module Spaceplane Robotic spacecraft Satellite Space probe Lander Rover Self-replicating spacecraft Space telescope Spacecraft propulsion Rocket engine Field propulsion Electric propulsion Solar sail Gravity assist Destinations Sub-orbital Orbital Geocentric Geosynchronous Interplanetary Interstellar Intergalactic Space launch Direct ascent Escape velocity Expendable and reusable launch systems Launch pad Non-rocket spacelaunch Spaceport Ground segment Flight controller Ground station Pass Mission control center Category Portal edit Related portals Astronomy Aviation Rocketry Science Solar System Outer space Technology edit Related WikiProjects Spaceflight Aviation Military history Solar System Astronomy edit Things to do Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Article requests : See Wikipedia:Requested articles/Applied arts and sciences/Engineering § Aeronautical/Aerospace See Wikipedia:Requested articles/Applied arts and sciences/Transport § Rockets and spacecraft Assess : See Category:Unassessed spaceflight articles Infobox : See Category:Spaceflight articles needing infoboxes Stubs : See Category:Outer space stubs Update : 2020s in spaceflight edit Categories Category puzzle Select [►] to view subcategories Spaceflight Human spaceflight People associated with spaceflight Spaceflight by century Spaceflight by decade Spaceflight by year Space programs Spacecraft Works about spaceflight Future spaceflights Space advocacy Aircraft related to spaceflight Astrodynamics Spaceflight between space stations Celebrations of spaceflight Spaceflight concepts Space debris Spaceflight ground equipment Flight abort Flybys (spaceflight) History of spaceflight Interstellar travel Space-flown life Space organizations Private spaceflight Rocket launches Sample return missions Space Age Suborbital spaceflight Spaceflight technology Test spaceflights Space traffic management edit Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Commons Free media repository Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikiversity Free learning tools Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Discover Wikipedia using portals List of all portals The arts portal Biography portal Current events portal Geography portal History portal Mathematics portal Science portal Society portal Technology portal Random portal WikiProject Portals Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Spaceflight&oldid=1323461165 " Categories : All portals Spaceflight portal Technology portals Transport portals Hidden categories: Portals with triaged subpages from April 2019 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Random portal component with more available subpages than specified max Random portal component with 26–30 available subpages Random portal component with 16–20 available subpages Random portal component with 16–20 available image subpages Redirect targets of redirected portals with existing subpages