https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69624500/1971-ford-mustang-mach-1-bring-a-trailer-auction

Bring a Trailer The Mustangs of the early 1970s have been underrated for years. This one shows how desirable they can be. It's optioned impeccably, with the fastback body style, a 351-cubic-inch V-8, a manual gearbox, and the sport interior. With only 5000 miles, it's also a time capsule that proves some things in the '70s were just as cool as in the '60s. As the Mustang aged into the 1970s, it, like the lapels and bell-bottom trousers of the time, got wider. Also longer and heavier. That's not exactly what you want in a sporting pony car. Thus, the earlier Mustangs of the 1960s have traditionally received more attention from enthusiasts, but the best examples of the early '70s Mustangs have an undeniable swagger and are starting to get their due. Bring a Trailer Cars like this incredibly low-mileage 1971 Mustang Mach 1, for sale on Bring a Trailer (which, like Car and Driver , is part of Hearst Autos). Reportedly purchased as a 21st birthday present to himself, the original owner didn't hold back on the options, but he was judicious with his driving, and the car now has just 5K miles on the odometer. There are the makings here of a concours-quality show car, ready to make Seventies Mustangs cool again. For Sale Near You See all results for 1971 Ford Mustang for sale near 94043 Bring a Trailer As a Mach 1, this fastback coupe came equipped with the signature twin-scoop look of this generation of Mustang, and since the optional ram-air box was checked, those ducts are functional. Other goodies include power disc brakes up front, power steering, an AM/FM stereo, high-back bucket seats with silver stripes, and chrome-finished 15-inch wheels wearing white-letter Firestone wide ovals. It looks fantastic, inside and out. Bring a Trailer Tucked under that long hood is a 351-cubic-inch "Cleveland" V-8, equipped with a four-barrel carburetor. From the factory, this engine made 285 horsepower, plenty enough when paired to a four-speed manual gearbox and a limited-slip differential. With a freshly rebuilt carb, a new fuel pump, and new fuel lines, those ponies should be ready to gallop again. Bring a Trailer Having said that, a very original Mach 1 with this kind of mileage on it is not exactly a classic to be driven regularly. It's more of a time capsule of the era, the kind of thing that somebody born in 1950 would have dreamed about getting for their 21st birthday. And possibly still dreams about for their 75th. Among the thorough documentation is a note that the late owner wrote to his sweetheart. "It may not be a Mercedes, but it might be a classic someday." How right he was. The auction ends on December 10. From the C/D Archive Tested: 1971 Ford Mustang Boss 351 Ford Mustang: A History in Accelerating to 60 MPH Tested: 1974 Ford Mustang II Mach I ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Brendan McAleer Contributing Editor Brendan McAleer is a freelance writer and photographer based in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada. He grew up splitting his knuckles on British automobiles, came of age in the golden era of Japanese sport-compact performance, and began writing about cars and people in 2008. His particular interest is the intersection between humanity and machinery, whether it is the racing career of Walter Cronkite or Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's half-century obsession with the Citroën 2CV. He has taught both of his young daughters how to shift a manual transmission and is grateful for the excuse they provide to be perpetually buying Hot Wheels.