https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69700667/rivian-r2-autonomous-driving-ai-tech-details

Rivian Rivian has revealed its new AI computer chip, the Rivian Autonomy Processor, which was developed in-house and will replace Nvidia chips on future models. The new chips will power Rivian's next-gen autonomous-driving platform, which will debut on the upcoming Rivian R2 SUV . While the new lidar sensor will be missing on Launch Editions, R2 models that follow will have all the necessary hardware to enjoy hands-free, eyes-off driving. Rivian is betting big on its own technology. The California-based automaker just revealed details about its next-generation automated-driving platform, which will debut on the forthcoming Rivian R2. While the Launch Edition will lack the new lidar sensor that's critical for SAE Level 4 autonomous driving , Rivian says it will include that hardware on the models that follow. That batch of lidar-equipped R2s will be able to receive over-the-air updates that will eventually enable hands-free, eyes-off driving. For Sale Near You See all results for 2026 Rivian R2 for sale near 93023 Rivian Takes Control of Its Tech Rivian Rivian currently sources chips from Nvidia, but its future vehicles, such as the R2, will use new proprietary chips with silicon it developed in-house to help reduce costs. The first version of these chips is dubbed the Rivian Autonomy Processor (RAP1), and two of these chips will power the brand's third-generation autonomous computer module, dubbed ACM3. For the techie types, Rivian says the latter can perform 1600 trillion operations per second and process 5 billion pixels of image data every second. While that's a lot of jargon for this humble scribe, it sounds like massive computing power, which is necessary for that level of autonomy. Meanwhile, the RAP1 is a 5nm processor that combines memory and processing into a single multi-chip module, and it's controlled by Rivian's new AI software. When combined with a suite of enhanced equipment—including 11 cameras, five radar sensors, and the aforementioned lidar sensor—Rivian CEO RJ Scaringe said the new hardware will allow Level 4 autonomous driving, essentially making the R2 and future models a driverless taxi in most situations as long as all conditions are met. Rivian also discussed its new Autonomy+ software, which will cost $49.99 per month or a one-time fee of $2500, but it'll allow owners to access expanding self-driving capability via OTA updates, including point-to-point navigation. Rivian During its inaugural AI and Autonomy Day, the automaker also discussed its new Rivian Unified Intelligence. The AI interface will be available on all Rivian models early next year. It includes a voice assistant designed to provide life-like conversation as well as myriad other features that let users control and monitor their vehicles with their voice. The RUI will also be useful for technicians to diagnose vehicles, and it'll soon reach the Rivian mobile app. Of course, all of this AI tech will migrate to the R2 when it enters production sometime next year, and Rivian says it will release more details as that date approaches. More Rivian Reading Rivian Says R2 Will Cost $45,000 Despite Tariffs Rivian Reveals R2: A Smaller, More Affordable SUV Rivian EVs Are Getting Expanded Hands-Free Driving ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Eric Stafford Managing Editor, News Eric Stafford’s automobile addiction began before he could walk, and it has fueled his passion to write news, reviews, and more for Car and Driver since 2016. His aspiration growing up was to become a millionaire with a Jay Leno–like car collection. Apparently, getting rich is harder than social-media influencers make it seem, so he avoided financial success entirely to become an automotive journalist and drive new cars for a living. After earning a journalism degree at Central Michigan University and working at a daily newspaper, the years of basically burning money on failed project cars and lemon-flavored jalopies finally paid off when Car and Driver hired him. His garage currently includes a 2010 Acura RDX, a manual '97 Chevy Camaro Z/28, and a '90 Honda CRX Si.