https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69697860/1993-chevrolet-g20-van-bring-a-trailer-auction

Bring a Trailer This Chevy van is set up for off-road exploring. It has 4x4 capability, a replacement V-8, and plenty of off-road extras. It also has undeniable A-Team vibes. In 1972, a crack commando unit was sent to prison by a military court for a crime they didn't commit. These men promptly escaped from a maximum security stockade to the Los Angeles underground. Today, still wanted by the government, they survive as soldiers of fortune. If you have a problem, if no one else can help, if you really need to see 400,000 rounds of ammunition fired off without anyone actually getting shot, maybe you can hire: the A-Team. Or you can just get your own adventure van. Bring a Trailer This 1993 Chevrolet G20 for sale on Bring a Trailer (which, like Car and Driver , is part of Hearst Autos) channels those 1980s action-television dreams. Finished in a military-hued tan bedliner paint and fitted with auxiliary lighting, this potential mobile headquarters has plenty of room onboard for all your gear and overflow space with a full aluminum roof rack. Onboard are niceties like air conditioning and a CD player (you know which TV show soundtrack to run out and buy immediately) plus a full aftermarket speaker setup. Pity the fool who doesn't appreciate a good swiveling captain's chair and a comfy bench seat big enough for the team while the mission gets laid out. For Sale Near You See all results for Chevrolet Van for sale near 94559 Bring a Trailer The lifted suspension features Bilstein and Fox racing shocks, while the 17-inch wheels wear fresh Toyo Open Country all-terrain tires. This van also has an upgraded power steering box, so you don't need forearms like Mr. T to muscle it down the road, and fresh brake pads up front. Bring a Trailer The 4x4 system is a period setup from Quigley, a Pennsylvania-based off-road van specialist that has been in business since the 1960s. Now a third-generation family business, Quigley is the established go-to for 4x4 conversion vans that can get you out there, living happily by a river somewhere like Matt Foley. Should you need to make a quick getaway, this van also comes with a relatively new 5.3-liter Chevy Vortec V-8 that was installed five years ago. The engine was dyno-tuned; figure output is in the 300-horsepower range. Bring a Trailer Bring a Trailer You can keep your fancy-pants Sprinter conversion vans. This Chevy van has performance chops, on-road and off, and an extra dose of nostalgia. We love it when a plan comes together. The auction ends on December 16. ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Brendan McAleer Contributing Editor Brendan McAleer is a freelance writer and photographer based in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada. He grew up splitting his knuckles on British automobiles, came of age in the golden era of Japanese sport-compact performance, and began writing about cars and people in 2008. His particular interest is the intersection between humanity and machinery, whether it is the racing career of Walter Cronkite or Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's half-century obsession with the Citroën 2CV. He has taught both of his young daughters how to shift a manual transmission and is grateful for the excuse they provide to be perpetually buying Hot Wheels.