https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rocker_arm

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Oscillating lever in engine Rocker arm, possibly from a Škoda 120 engine Top view of 6 stamped steel rocker arms in a Ford Vulcan V6 engine A rocker arm is a valvetrain component that typically transfers the motion of a pushrod in an overhead valve internal combustion engine to the corresponding intake/exhaust valve . Rocker arms in automobiles are typically made from stamped steel, or aluminum in higher-revving applications. Some rocker arms (called roller rockers ) include a bearing at the contact point, to reduce wear and friction there. Overview [ edit ] The most common use of a rocker arm is to transfer the up and down motion of a pushrod in an overhead valve (OHV) internal combustion engine to the corresponding intake/exhaust valve .  In an OHV engine the camshaft located within the engine block below the cylinder bank(s) pushes the pushrod upwards. The top of the pushrod presses upwards on one side of the rocker arm located at the top of the cylinder head , which causes the rocker arm to pivot downward on the top of the valve, opening it. To reduce friction, uneven wear and "bell-mouthing" of the valve guide , [ 1 ] a roller rocker uses needle bearings (or a single bearing ball in older engines) at the contact point between the rocker and the valve. These allow higher engine speeds (RPMs) and higher loads, and were initially confined to high-performance and racing engines due to the considerable extra expense. Roller rockers can also be used in overhead cam engines (OHC). However, these generally have the roller at the point where the cam lobe contacts the rocker, rather than where the rocker contacts the valve stem. Some OHC engines employ short rocker arms, also known as finger followers, [ 2 ] in which the cam lobe pushes downward on the back of the rocker arm to open the valve. In such a configuration one end of the follower is anchored (pivoting in place on a roller bearing), rather than having its fulcrum in the center like standard rocker arms.  The opposite end bears on the top of the valvestem, compressed by the force of the cam lobe acting on its upper surface. Rocker ratio [ edit ] The rocker ratio is the distance travelled by the valve divided by the distance travelled by the pushrod effective. The ratio is determined by the ratio of the distances from the rocker arm's pivot point to the point where it touches the valve and the point where it touches the pushrod/camshaft. A rocker ratio greater than one essentially increases the camshaft's lift . Current automotive design favors rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1. [ citation needed ] However, in the past smaller positive ratios have been used, including a 1:1 (neutral ratio) in many engines prior to the 1950s, and ratios less than 1 (valve lift smaller than the cam lift) have also been used at times. Materials [ edit ] This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. ( March 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Mass-produced car engines traditionally used  a stamped steel construction for the rocker arms, due to the lower cost of production. Rocker arms contribute to the reciprocating weight of the valvetrain, which can become problematic at higher engine speeds ( RPM ). For this reason, aluminum is often used in engines that operate at higher RPM. Upgraded bearings for the rocker arm's fulcrum are also sometimes used in engines operating at high RPM. Diesel truck engines often use rocker arms made from cast iron (usually ductile), or forged carbon steel . See also [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Rocker arms . Camshaft List of auto parts Poppet valve Pushrod Tappet References [ edit ] ^ "Roller Rockers explained" . WhichCar . Retrieved 5 March 2022 . ^ "Valve train: components, types and their function" . 9 October 2019. v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rocker_arm&oldid=1276317541 " Category : Valvetrain Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2022 Articles needing additional references from March 2022 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is on Wikidata