https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69808367/1967-toyota-2000gt-bring-a-trailer-auction

Bring a Trailer The Toyota 2000GT is the ultimate Japanese collector car. An ancestor to the Lexus LFA and the just-introduced GR GT, this car was a technological powerhouse when it launched. This one has impeccable credentials and is currently owned by CART legend Bobby Rahal. In terms of the Japanese collector car market, there's the Toyota 2000GT, and then there's everything else. It is the ne plus ultra of JDM steel: rare, handmade, delicate, and not really a Toyota. This festively red example is currently up for sale on Bring a Trailer (which, like Car and Driver , is part of Hearst Autos). It's a 1967 2000GT in right-hand-drive, as owned by Indy legend Bobby Rahal. And there's still time to get it on your wish list for Santa. Bring a Trailer Toyota's first sports car was the Sports 800, a toylike little coupe with a horizontally opposed two-cylinder engine inspired by the Citroën 2CV. Interesting, certainly, but not quite a world-beater. A 2000GT, on the other hand, can be parked alongside a contemporary Jaguar E-Type and look like two society beauties hobnobbing at a swishy holiday party. For Sale Near You See all results for 1967 Toyota 2000GT for sale near 28673 Bring a Trailer With the sale two years ago of one of the SCCA 2000GT racing cars for $2.5M, the 2000GT is absolutely the iconic Toyota. The thing is, it wasn't actually built by the company. Instead, it was developed and hand-made in partnership with Yamaha. This partnership would go on to influence all manner of great Toyota products, from the cylinder head of the original MR2 to the sound the Lexus LFA makes when you peg that glorious V-10 to its 9000-rpm redline. You can draw a direct line from the 2000GT to the just-announced GR GT , and for the 1960s, Toyota's ancestral grand tourer was a pretty advanced car. The suspension consists of control arms at all four corners, and there are also disc brakes all around, along with 15-inch magnesium wheels. The delightful rack-and-pinion steering was a first for a Toyota product. Bring a Trailer Then there's that triple-carbureted 2.0-liter inline-six, which is so smooth it might as well be running on high-fat cream. Power isn't huge, at around 150 horsepower, but to bring up the E-Type again, a Jaguar six growls while a 2000GT purrs. Be warned, however, that this is not a car for the gangly. If you're over 5'10", better schedule a haircut. The 2000GT stands just 46 inches high, and while the legroom is not too stunted, drivers with a long torso will simply not fit. When Sean Connery as James Bond drove one in You Only Live Twice, Toyota had to build a couple of convertible versions to accommodate his six-foot-two frame. Bring a Trailer This example was reportedly originally delivered to Mozambique, presumably to the Most Interesting Man In The World, then later made its way to Costa Rica via the US. It was comprehensively refreshed over a decade ago in Costa Rica, then sold twice on Bring a Trailer . Currently, it's offered through a dealership owned by three-time CART champion Bobby Rahal. There's a laundry list of touchups and mechanical work, much of it done by a UK specialist, and this car has a recent trophy from the Amelia Island Concours d'Elegance. Arguably, peak Toyota would be something mass-produced in the millions, but if we're talking hand-built Japanese craftsmanship, only the original Mazda Cosmo gets close. This is the Japanese collector car to own, and it should fetch a price tag that reflects as much. Whoever hits the high bid will be able to collect this car the day after Christmas. Dear Santa-san, we've been ever so good this year. Brendan McAleer Contributing Editor Brendan McAleer is a freelance writer and photographer based in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada. He grew up splitting his knuckles on British automobiles, came of age in the golden era of Japanese sport-compact performance, and began writing about cars and people in 2008. His particular interest is the intersection between humanity and machinery, whether it is the racing career of Walter Cronkite or Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's half-century obsession with the Citroën 2CV. He has taught both of his young daughters how to shift a manual transmission and is grateful for the excuse they provide to be perpetually buying Hot Wheels.