https://www.wikihow.com/Academy/Shawn-Achor

Find Happiness With Bestselling Author, Speaker, and Researcher Shawn Achor After spending twelve years at Harvard University, Shawn Achor has become one of the world’s leading experts on the connection between happiness and success. His research on mindset made the cover of Harvard Business Review, his TED Talk is one of the most popular of all time with over 25 million views, and his lecture airing on PBS has been seen by millions. wikiHow has partnered with Shawn to help you find lasting happiness. Use our AI Happiness Helper to apply Shawn’s principles to your own life and become happier, starting right now. Shawn Achor is one of the world’s leading experts on the connection between happiness and success. His TED Talk is one of the most popular of all time with over 25 million views, and he is a New York Times bestselling author. wikiHow has partnered with Shawn to build our AI Happiness Helper, which will help you apply Shawn’s principles to your own life to become happier and more successful. Choose a Topic to Get Started 20-Second Rule Falling Up Happiness Advantage Happiness Habits Human Potential Leading With Optimism Positive Intelligence Positive Outliers Positive Psychology Practicing Gratitude Rational Optimism Resilience Through Recovery Secondhand Stress Social Investment The Definition of Happiness The Power of Mindset The Power of Praise The Ripple Effect Select a topic above or ask your own question below to learn from Shawn. Why is praise so important? How do you define happiness? Tell me what it means to be a Positive Outlier. ↑ More Happiness Resources Take the quiz: How Can I Become Happier? Not sure what’s holding you back from happiness? This quiz will help you get happier today, based on Shawn’s principles. Take Quiz Shawn's Work BIG POTENTIAL How Transforming the Pursuit of Success Raises our Achievement, Happiness and Well-Being We have long thought about potential as being a set of individual traits: your creativity, your skills your intelligence. But thanks to exciting new research combining neuroscience and psychology with Big Data, we now know that our potential is not limited by what we alone can achieve. Instead, it is determined by how we complement, contribute to, and benefit from the abilities and achievements of people around us. Read more... THE HAPPINESS ADVANTAGE The Seven Principles of Positive Psychology that Fuel Success & Performance at Work Our most commonly held formula for success is broken. Conventional wisdom holds that if we work hard we will be more successful, and if we are more successful, then we’ll be happy. If we can just find that great job, win that next promotion, lose those five pounds, happiness will follow. But recent discoveries in the field of positive psychology have shown that this formula is actually backward: happiness fuels success, not the other way around. Read more... BEFORE HAPPINESS The 5 Hidden Keys to Achieving Success, Spreading Happiness and Sustaining Positive Change Why are some people able to make positive change while others remain the same?  In his international bestseller, The Happiness Advantage , Harvard trained researcher Shawn Achor described why happiness is the precursor to greater success. This book is about what comes before both. Because before we can be happy or successful, we need to first develop the ability to see that positive change is possible. Only once we learn to see the world through a more positive lens can we summon all our motivation, emotion, and intelligence to achieve our personal and professional goals. Read more... HOW TO MAKE A SHARK SMILE It takes big actions to make big changes. Or does it? In How to Make a Shark Smile , residents of an aquarium learn that sometimes a smile is all it takes to make a world of difference. Awash with charming illustrations, this delightful tale will show children that happiness is a choice they get to make for themselves. Recipient of the Mom’s Choice Gold Award and digital bestseller on Amazon Kindle for Children’s Books. Read more... THE ORANGE FROG A Parable for Culture Change Caught between two worlds, Spark was exactly like every other frog in his pond with one notable exception. Spark emerges from a tadpole with a slight but noticeable orange spot. And this orange spot makes Spark feel uncomfortably different. What’s more, Spark begins to make a disconcerting observation; when Spark does things that make him feel better (and produce more positive results) the orange spots increase. Spark is left with a difficult decision; be normal, which makes him less conspicuous, or continue doing those things that make him happier, more productive and… more orange. So begins the parable of The Orange Frog, a disarming tale that serves as the starting point for the workshop Leading Positive Results™ Read more...