https://mechanics.stackexchange.com/questions/101811/what-happen-if-some-drops-of-the-wheel-cleaner-come-to-the-car-paint-and-how-to

what happen if some drops of the wheel cleaner come to the car paint, and how to deal with them Ask Question Asked 5 days ago Modified 5 days ago Viewed 28 times 0 I got this product :- Shield™ Wheel Cleaner from https://www.armorall.com/my/product/shield-wheel-cleaner/ . now if while spraying it on the car wheels some drops reached the car paint, will it ruin it? as it is hard to spray the wheels without touching the car paint, either when spraying the product on the wheel or when washing the product from the wheels using high pressure water? any advice? wheels paint cleaning paint-clearcoat Share Improve this question Follow asked Dec 24 at 0:17 test test 173 1 1 gold badge 1 1 silver badge 6 6 bronze badges Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 0 It is inevitable that you will get some on your paint. The best action is to wipe away any spots or drips quickly with a clean towel. The product info doesn't indicate that the product will damage paint, it simply is not suitable for paint. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Dec 24 at 20:53 RMDman 939 2 2 silver badges 12 12 bronze badges Add a comment | You must log in to answer this question. Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions wheels paint cleaning paint-clearcoat See similar questions with these tags. Featured on Meta A proposal for bringing back Community Promotion & Open Source Ads Native Ads coming soon to Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange Related 9 Why did my clear coat turn out matte instead of glossy, and how can I fix it? 7 Can polishing compound ruin my car's paint job? 0 Car wash after applying car sealant? 6 Neighbor uses cans of spray paint on his car - can it travel to my car? 1 Painting Carbon Fiber Parts 1 Removing wax from motorcycle plastic fairing 0 Best paint to paint windshield wiper arms? 5 Red 2014 Ford Fiesta clear paint coat starting to peel 2 Does car Wax paste contain any abrasive polishing components? as i am seeking a 100% pure wax for paint protection Hot Network Questions When does the same distribution imply coincidence of functions? Can I use an lmer for count data if the glmer fails the dispersion test? Very weak performance of the rear disk brake Confirming Symbols Why are there sparks when I put a multimeter to an apparently unused light switch? Finding an operator for 3 distinct values with bitwise operations Why is there a 'Temperature' and a 'Feels like (Temperature)' in weather apps? What's the difference between the two? How does index notation work in complex vector spaces with non-degenerate Hermitian forms? "Volcanoes" in Asgat, Mongolia pass-otp fails on second device Three fonts supports for polyglossia package? Use some characters from the text font instead of the corresponding ones from mtpro2 Initial value for 2-soliton solution of KdV equation How can I convert object locations currently in UTMs to a rectangular (square) coordinate system with lower left corner coordinates as 0 m , 0 m? Is the Canonical Decomposition of Functions Canonical? Why do condensation droplets on my window show a size gradient? zpool resilver crash may have caused pool to become corrupted Do mobile network base stations still use lead acid for backup power? Does it make sense to average standard errors like this? How do I set the interpolation type of a specific action slots and not active object to constant with bpy? Moving from C, how to implement a doubly linked list in C++ using C++ features? What could be the reason for error 500 after adding IP networks to Require Not IP? Is it dangerous if there is a mains fault on a potable water pipe? Two points on a cube with exactly three shortest paths connecting them more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.