https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_control_unit

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Automotive control system This article is about controls for motor vehicles. For other uses, see Control unit (disambiguation) . An ECU from a Geo Storm An electronic control unit ( ECU ), also known as an electronic control module ( ECM ), is an embedded system in automotive electronics that controls one or more of the electrical systems or subsystems in a car or other motor vehicle . Modern vehicles have many ECUs, and these can include some or all of the following: engine control module (ECM), powertrain control module (PCM), transmission control module (TCM), brake control module (BCM or EBCM), central control module (CCM), central timing module (CTM), general electronic module (GEM), body control module (BCM), and suspension control module (SCM). These ECUs together are sometimes referred to collectively as the car's computer though technically they are all separate computers, not a single one. Sometimes an assembly incorporates several individual control modules (a PCM often controls both the engine and the transmission). [ 1 ] Some modern motor vehicles have up to 150 ECUs. [ 2 ] Embedded software in ECUs continues to increase in line count, complexity, and sophistication. [ 3 ] Managing the increasing complexity and number of ECUs in a vehicle has become a key challenge for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Types [ edit ] This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. ( June 2022 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Generic industry controller naming – Is the naming of controllers where the logical thought of the controller's name implies the system the controller is responsible for controlling Generic powertrain – The generic powertrain pertains to a vehicle's emission system and is the only regulated controller name. Other controllers – All other controller names are decided upon by the individual OEM. The engine controller may have several different names, such as "DME", "Enhanced Powertrain", "PGM-FI" and many others. Door control unit (DCU) Engine control unit (ECU) – not to be confused with electronic control unit, [ 4 ] the generic term for all these devices Electric power steering control unit (PSCU) – Generally this will be integrated into the EPS power pack. Human–machine interface (HMI) Powertrain control module (PCM) – Sometimes the functions of the engine control unit and transmission control module (TCM) are combined into a single unit called the Powertrain Control Module. Seat control unit Speed control unit (SCU) Telematic control unit (TCU) Transmission control module (TCM) Brake control module (BCM; ABS or ESC ) Battery management system (BMS) Key elements [ edit ] Core Microcontroller Memory SRAM EEPROM Flash Inputs Supply Voltage and Ground Digital inputs Analog inputs Outputs Actuator drivers (e.g. injectors, relays, valves) H bridge drivers for servomotors Logic outputs Communication links Housing Bus Transceivers, e.g. for K-Line, CAN, Ethernet Embedded Software Boot Loader Metadata for ECU and Software Identification, Version Management, Checksums Functional Software Routines Configuration Data Design and development [ edit ] The development of an ECU involves both hardware and software required to perform the functions expected from that particular module. Automotive ECU's are being developed following the V-model. [ 1 ] Recently the trend is to dedicate a significant amount of time and effort to develop safe modules by following standards like ISO 26262 . [ 5 ] It is rare that a module is developed fully from scratch. The design is generally iterative and improvements are made to both the hardware and software. The development of most ECUs is carried out by Tier 1 suppliers based on specifications provided by the OEM [ citation needed ] . Testing and validation [ edit ] As part of the development cycle, manufacturers perform detailed FMEAs and other failure analyses to catch failure modes that can lead to unsafe conditions or driver annoyance. Extensive testing and validation activities are carried out as part of the Production part approval process to gain the confidence of the hardware and software. On-board diagnostics or OBD help provide specific data related to which system or component failed or caused a failure during run time and help perform repairs. Modifications [ edit ] Some people may wish to modify their ECU so as to be able to add or change functionality. However modern ECUs come equipped with protection locks to prevent users from modifying the circuit or exchange chips. The protection locks are a form of digital rights management (DRM), the circumventing of which is illegal in certain jurisdictions. In the United States for example, the DMCA criminalizes circumvention of DRM, [ 6 ] though an exemption does apply that allows the owner of a motorized land vehicle circumvention if it is required to allow diagnosis, repair or lawful modification (ie. that does not violate applicable law such as emissions regulations). [ 7 ] References [ edit ] ^ a b National Instruments White Paper on Electronic Control Units Archived 2013-12-21 at the Wayback Machine ^ "Number of automotive ECUs continues to rise" . eeNews Automotive . 2019-05-15 . Retrieved 2021-07-18 . ^ Ebert, Christof; Jones, Capers (2009-04-01). "Embedded Software: Facts, Figures, and Future" . Computer . 42 (4): 42– 52. doi : 10.1109/MC.2009.118 . S2CID 14008049 . Retrieved 2010-09-15 . ^ baua (2022-01-04). "What is Electronic control Unit and what does it do" . Bauaelectric News . Retrieved 2022-01-12 . [ dead link ] ^ Case, Lenny (October 2011). "Fast-tracking ECU development" . Automotive Industries . ^ "Circumventing ECU protection being illegal" . Wired . 2015-01-23. ^ "Federal Register" . 2015-10-28. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Automobile computers . v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Authority control databases GND Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electronic_control_unit&oldid=1326301581 " Categories : Power control Engine technology Fuel injection systems Engine control systems Engine components Onboard computers Auto parts Self-driving cars Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from April 2023 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from June 2022 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2023 Commons category link from Wikidata