https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Jaguar_I-Pace

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is rated C-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to the following WikiProjects : Automobiles Low‑importance Cars portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Automobiles , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of automobiles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Automobiles Wikipedia:WikiProject Automobiles Template:WikiProject Automobiles Automobile Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . Environment : Green vehicle Low‑importance Environment portal This environment-related article is part of the WikiProject Environment to improve Wikipedia's coverage of the environment . The aim is to write neutral and well-referenced articles on environment-related topics, as well as to ensure that environment articles are properly categorized . Read Wikipedia:Contributing FAQ and leave any messages at the project talk page . Environment Wikipedia:WikiProject Environment Template:WikiProject Environment Environment Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . This article is supported by the Green vehicle task force . United Kingdom Low‑importance United Kingdom portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject United Kingdom , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of the United Kingdom on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. United Kingdom Wikipedia:WikiProject United Kingdom Template:WikiProject United Kingdom United Kingdom Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . Energy Low‑importance Energy portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Energy , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Energy on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Energy Wikipedia:WikiProject Energy Template:WikiProject Energy energy Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . On the Road [ edit ] I saw the 'prototype vehicle' (it was marked as such) on the M42 today, wearing a 67 plate. It looks awesome. mentioning that it's on the road would count as OR I suppose? Stub Mandrel ( talk ) 20:09, 28 March 2018 (UTC) [ reply ] What type of car is it? [ edit ] I've started a discussion on Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Automobiles about this. -- DeFacto ( talk ). 10:28, 8 April 2018 (UTC) [ reply ] Jaguar I-Pace... a "Sport cross car" (YouTube) [ edit ] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3IvBqt4bruE — Preceding unsigned comment added by 93.38.65.148 ( talk ) 23:14, 10 December 2018 (UTC) [ reply ] Problem: The name of the car is actually I-PACE not I-Pace. [ edit ] I learned this directly from a senior JLR employee, and if you visit any of Jaguar's properties, the spelling is consistent end-to-end.  I think I should throw a global search-and-replace on the article and make a new one under the correct name and turn this into a redirect. (Never done that before, but how hard can it be?)  (Yes I agree that I-Pace is much nicer typographically, but that's the way it is.) Does anyone disagree? Tim Bray ( talk ) 22:53, 26 January 2019 (UTC) [ reply ] @ TimBray : the MOS says basically that, unless it's an acronym or the letters are said individually, not to, regardless of how the trademark owner prefers to write it - see MOS:TMRULES . It's a similar case for BMW Mini . -- DeFacto ( talk ). 23:07, 26 January 2019 (UTC) [ reply ] Thanks for the clarification.  FYI, I've now added a note to the article saying that the name is "stylised as I-PACE" - similar to what was done for BMW Mini . Ross Finlayson ( talk ) 23:39, 26 January 2019 (UTC) [ reply ] Opening Paragraph "British automotive company" [ edit ] "The Jaguar I-Pace is a battery-electric crossover SUV produced by British automotive company Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) under their Jaguar marque." This opening paragraph is bulls**t, Jaguar is a wholly Indian owned company, referring to it in the opening paragraph as a "British" is incorrect and misleading. By all means play on the British heritage of Jaguar, British design (if so) or even British manufacture / production (though historical car production is hardly something to brag about). Perhaps Jaguar marketing can play with it's branding, to customers who think they are buying into history - Wikipedia should not. — Preceding unsigned comment added by 109.145.109.73 ( talk ) 09:07, 14 April 2019 (UTC) [ reply ] Advert tag [ edit ] Lunacats , can you give details of which parts of the article prompted you to add this tag please. -- DeFacto ( talk ). 16:53, 3 November 2021 (UTC) [ reply ] The awards section seem promotional as many of the awards are not notable Lunacats ( talk ) 16:55, 3 November 2021 (UTC) [ reply ] Production dates [ edit ] An IP editor, User:90.186.224.104 , continues to insert 2024 as the end date of production. However, this source and others indicate the I-Pace will be in production until December 2024. As it is only July, the vehicle is still in production. Also, Template:Infobox automobile indicates that "The end date should remain "present" until production has ended." To stop the IP edit warring with me and User:DeFacto , I've created this topic for discussion. Bahooka ( talk ) 21:03, 21 July 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] I agree, we cannot enter a production end date until production has ended. We do not know when it will be until it has happened. -- DeFacto ( talk ). 21:13, 21 July 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] To add to article [ edit ] Basic information to add to this article (in order to help make it more properly encyclopedic): why this car is called I-Pace, and what the "I" and "Pace" in the name signify, exactly. 98.123.38.211 ( talk ) 23:57, 11 December 2024 (UTC) [ reply ] Classification [ edit ] EuroNCAP call it an executive car with a five-door hatchback body style. The claim that this is an SUV confuses me. Really it just has a bodystyle which doesn't neatly conform to any traditional category of internal-combustion engine car. The concept car does look like an SUV, but that's a concept car and those rarely resemble their production counterparts particularly closely. If some sources call it an SUV or a crossover or whatever then by all means cite them with attribution, but I think the idea that we can slot this into any particularly neat category beyond the vague descriptors used by EuroNCAP (an executive car could in theory have almost any body style and something can be a hatchback whilst also being an SUV or a crossover or an MPV or whatever other term people want to use to describe this) is sliding into MOS:EDITORIAL territory. HumanBodyPiloter5 ( talk ) 12:14, 20 October 2025 (UTC) [ reply ] Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Jaguar_I-Pace&oldid=1317854578 " Categories : C-Class Automobile articles Low-importance Automobile articles C-Class Environment articles Low-importance Environment articles Green vehicle task force articles C-Class United Kingdom articles Low-importance United Kingdom articles WikiProject United Kingdom articles C-Class energy articles Low-importance energy articles