https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Car_dealership

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Business that sells and trades new or used vehicles The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject . You may improve this article , discuss the issue on the talk page , or create a new article , as appropriate. ( April 2020 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) An Audi dealership in Onalaska, Wisconsin An aerial view of auto dealer's service in Kuopio , Finland Service and repair entrance Auto dealer's service and repair facility Dealer for vintage cars A car dealership , or car dealer , is a business that sells new or used cars at the retail level, typically under a franchise agreement with an automaker or its authorized distributor. [ 1 ] In addition to vehicle sales, dealerships often provide after-sales services such as maintenance, repairs, financing, insurance, and the sale of spare parts. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] In the United States, car dealerships have historically been a significant source of revenue for local and state sales taxes. [ 4 ] They possess significant political influence and have successfully lobbied for franchise laws that prevent automakers from selling vehicles directly to consumers. By 2010, all 50 states and the District of Columbia had enacted laws prohibiting direct manufacturer-to-consumer car sales, ensuring the survival of independent dealerships. Most states also restrict the establishment of new dealerships that compete with existing ones. [ 5 ] Economists have described these regulations as a form of rent-seeking that increases consumer prices and limits competition, while raising profits for incumbent dealers. [ 6 ] In the United Kingdom, the structure of car retailing differs from that of the United States. Dealerships commonly operate under franchise agreements governed by the Block Exemption Regulation issued by the European Commission, which allows automakers to appoint authorized dealers while preserving competition among repairers and service providers. [ 7 ] Following the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, the Competition and Markets Authority introduced a domestic version of the regulation in 2023, maintaining similar protections for consumers and independent repair businesses. [ 8 ] Most UK dealerships sell multiple brands through franchise networks operated by large retail groups such as Pendragon, Lookers, and Arnold Clark, which account for a significant share of national vehicle sales. [ 9 ] Dealerships are also regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) when offering consumer credit or finance products, ensuring transparency in vehicle finance and leasing agreements. [ 10 ] Car dealerships in the United States [ edit ] Main article: Car dealerships in the United States The early cars were sold by automakers to customers directly or through a variety of channels, including mail order, department stores, and traveling representatives. [ 11 ] For example, Sears made its first attempt at selling a gasoline-engined chain-drive high-wheeler in 1908 through its mail-order catalog and starting in 1951 the Allstate through select its stores and the catalog. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] The first car dealership was opened in 1889 by Fred Koller in Reading, Pennsylvania and sold cars manufactured in Cleveland, Ohio. This would have been the first dealership solely dedicated to automobiles, as opposed to horse-drawn carriages. [ 14 ] The first Ford dealer was opened by William L. Hughson in San Francisco in January of 1903. [ 15 ] The first woman car dealer in the United States was Rachel "Mommy" Krouse who in 1903 opened her business, Krouse Motor Car Company, in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . [ 16 ] [ 17 ] Today, direct sales by an automaker to consumers are limited by most states in the U.S. through franchise laws that require new cars to be sold only by licensed and bonded, independently owned dealerships. [ 18 ] The number of car dealerships in the US peaked in 1927 at 53,125 and steadily decreased over the next decades. By 1960, there were 33, 658 dealerships; by 1980, 23,379; and by 2001, 22,007. [ 11 ] Car dealerships are usually franchised to sell and service vehicles by specific companies. They are often located on properties offering enough room to have buildings housing a showroom, mechanical service, and body repair facilities, as well as to provide storage for used and new vehicles. Many dealerships are located out of town or on the edge of town centers. An example of a traditional single proprietorship car dealership was Collier Motors in North Carolina. [ 19 ] Many modern dealerships are now part of corporate-owned chains with hundreds of locations. [ 20 ] Dealership profits in the US mainly come from servicing , some from used cars , and little from new cars. [ 21 ] Most automotive manufacturers have shifted the focus of their franchised retailers to branding and technology. New or refurbished facilities are required to have a standard look for their dealerships and have product experts to liaise with customers. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] Audi has experimented with a hi-tech showroom that allows customers to configure and experience cars on 1:1 scale digital screens. [ 24 ] [ 25 ] In markets where it is permitted, Mercedes-Benz opened city centre brand stores. [ 26 ] Tesla, Inc. rejected the dealership sales model , claiming that dealerships do not properly explain the advantages of their cars over vehicles with an internal combustion engine , and thus they could not rely on third-party dealerships to handle their sales. [ 27 ] However, in the United States, direct manufacturer auto sales are prohibited in many states by franchise laws that requires new cars to be sold only by franchised dealers. [ 28 ] In response, Tesla operates city centre galleries where prospective customers can view their cars which can only be ordered online. [ 29 ] [ 30 ] These stores were inspired by the Apple Stores . [ 31 ] Tesla's model was the first of its kind, and has given them unique advantages as a new car company. [ 32 ] Economic theory [ edit ] In economic theory, car dealerships can be characterized as franchisees and automobile manufacturers as franchisors. A franchise relationship can be beneficial to both parties, as the franchisee can sell a well-made and attractive product while the franchisor can rely on the franchisee to incur downstream costs and use its local relationships to sell more products and services. [ 11 ] The franchisor can act opportunistically by imposing constraints and burden on the franchisee after the latter has incurred sunk costs , such as investing in physical assets and building up a reputation with customers. The franchisor could for example require that cars be sold at low prices, and services be performed for little compensation. The franchisee could on the other hand act opportunistically by using its local monopoly to perform poor customer service, charge customers more, and pass those unnecessarily high costs to the franchisor. [ 11 ] [ 33 ] Regulations that protect car dealers [ edit ] Car dealerships have lobbied for regulations that increase the survival and profitability of car dealerships: [ 11 ] By 2010, all US states had laws that prohibited manufacturers from side-stepping independent car dealers and selling cars to customers directly. By 2009, most states imposed restrictions on the creation of new dealerships to compete with incumbent dealerships. All states impose severe limits on the ability of a manufacturer to terminate a franchise relationship. Most states prevent manufacturers from engaging in "quantity forcing" whereby manufacturers require that dealers purchase vehicles that they had not ordered. Most states limit the ability of manufacturers to discriminate between car dealers (for example, by providing better terms to large car dealers with economies of scale or dealers that provide better customer service). Many state laws impose upon manufacturers the precise terms under which they must compensate dealers for the costs associated with warranty repairs (these can incentivize dealers to increase the price of repairs to customers). Most state laws require upon the termination of a dealership that manufacturers buy back the inventory, and special equipment and in some cases pay the rent of the dealer's facilities. The issuance of new dealership licenses can be subject to geographical restriction; if there is already a dealership for a company in an area, no one else can open one. This has led to dealerships becoming in essence hereditary, with families running dealerships in an area since the original issuance of their license with no fear of competition or any need to prove qualification or consumer benefit (beyond proving they meet minimum legal standards), as franchises in most jurisdictions can only be withdrawn for illegal activity and no other reason. [ 34 ] Criticism [ edit ] Economists have characterized these laws as a form of rent-seeking that extracts rents from manufacturers of cars and increases costs for consumers of cars while raising profits for car dealers. [ 11 ] [ 35 ] [ 36 ] [ 37 ] Multiple studies have shown that regulations that protect car dealerships increase car costs for consumers and limit the profitability of manufacturers. [ 38 ] This has led to consumer campaigns for establishment or reform, which have been met by huge lobbying efforts by franchise holders. New companies trying to enter the market, such as Tesla , have been restricted by this model and have either been forced out or been forced to work around the franchise model, facing constant legal pressure. [ 39 ] Electric vehicles [ edit ] According to a 2023 survey by the Sierra Club, two-thirds of US car dealerships did not have electric or hybrid vehicles for sale. [ 40 ] Reasons for this include supply chain difficulties, [ 40 ] [ 41 ] as well as a need for car dealers to make substantial investments in new employee training and infrastructure to be able to sell, service and maintain electric vehicles. [ 42 ] Car dealerships in the European Union [ edit ] This section needs expansion . You can help by adding to it . ( May 2023 ) In the European Union, car manufacturers were permitted from 1985 to 2006 to enter into contracts with car dealerships that restricted what kinds of cars dealers were permitted to sell. [ 43 ] [ 44 ] Car manufacturers were able "to impose qualitative, quantitative and geographical restrictions on supply by selling their cars only through a limited number of dealers bound by strict franchise agreements." [ 43 ] In 2006, the European Commission determined that it was anti-competitive for car manufacturers to prohibit dealers from carrying multiple car brands. [ 44 ] Car manufacturers in the European Union are increasingly shifting towards selling cars directly to customers without reliance on independent dealers. Volvo has announced plans to sell all vehicles directly to customers by 2030. [ 45 ] [ 46 ] Multibrand car dealers [ edit ] Multibrand and multi-maker car dealers sell cars from different and independent carmakers. [ 47 ] Some are specialized in electric vehicles . [ 48 ] Auto transport [ edit ] Auto transport is used to move vehicles from the factory to the dealerships. This includes international and domestic shipping. It was largely a commercial activity conducted by manufacturers, dealers, and brokers. Internet use has encouraged this niche service to expand and reach the general consumer marketplace. See also [ edit ] Auto auction Auto row Automaker Car broker Car rental List of auto dealership and repair shop buildings Showroom Used car Organizations [ edit ] Carfax Kelley Blue Book Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations of India (FADA) National Automobile Dealers Association Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry References [ edit ] ^ "Meaning of car dealership in English" . dictionary.cambridge.org . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ Wendt, Ronnie (11 June 2021). "Why Every Dealer Needs a Post-Sale Vehicle Service Contract Program" . autodealertodaymagazine.com . Retrieved 6 October 2025 . ^ Lazarus, Ari (16 August 2024). "Car dealerships can't charge you for add-ons you don't want" . US Federal Trade Commission - Consumer Advice . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ Hill, Kim; Menk, Debbie Maranger; Cregger, Joshua (April 2012). "Assessment of Tax Revenue Generated by the Automotive Sector" (PDF) . Center for Automotive Research prepared for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ "State Laws Barring Direct Auto Sales to Consumers" . Congressional Research Service . 17 May 2023 . Retrieved 6 October 2025 . ^ Klein, Peter G.; Zenger, Todd R. (2020). "The Rent-Seeking Nature of Car Dealership Regulation". Journal of Economic Perspectives . 34 (3): 167– 182. doi : 10.1257/jep.34.3.167 . ^ "Motor Vehicle Block Exemption Regulation" . gov.uk . Competition and Markets Authority. 1 June 2023 . Retrieved 6 October 2025 . ^ "New rules to promote competition in the UK motor vehicle sector" . gov.uk (Press release). Competition and Markets Authority. 1 June 2023 . Retrieved 6 October 2025 . ^ "UK Car Dealership Market Report 2024" . ibisworld.com/ . 2024 . Retrieved 6 October 2025 . ^ "Motor Finance" . fca.org.uk . Financial Conduct Authority . Retrieved 6 October 2025 . ^ a b c d e f Lafontaine, Francine; Morton, Fiona Scott (2010). "Markets: State Franchise Laws, Dealer Terminations, and the Auto Crisis" . Journal of Economic Perspectives . 24 (3): 233– 250. doi : 10.1257/jep.24.3.233 . ISSN 0895-3309 . ^ Strohl, Daniel (25 March 2024). "Sears sold many things well, just not automobiles" . Hemmings . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ Tate, Robert (17 March 2015). "When Sears Sold Vehicles: Remembering the Allstate" . motorcities.org . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ Ryan, Tom (31 March 2022). "Dealership Business Model: The Future of Automotive Retail" . Archived from the original on 21 May 2022. ^ "Research Guide: First Ford Motor Company dealer" . thehenryford.org . 28 July 2025 . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ "Rachel Krouse". The Evening Bulletin . Philadelphia. 7 December 1953. p. 1 and 6. ^ "obituary: Rachel "Mommy" Krouse". The Evening Bulletin . Philadelphia. 29 January 1954. ^ Quinland, Roger M. "Has the Traditional Automobile Franchise System Run Out of Gas?" . The Franchise Lawyer . 16 (3). Archived from the original on 14 May 2016 . Retrieved 21 April 2016 . ^ Cotter, Tom (22 September 2013). "Former AMC Dealership Full of Cars" . Barn Finds . Retrieved 8 September 2019 . ^ Tucker, Sean (15 September 2021). "The Future of Car Shopping: Fewer Dealerships, More Consolidation" . Kelley Blue Book . Retrieved 6 December 2022 . ^ "NADA Data 2015 the annual financial profile of new-car dealerships" . National Automobile Dealers Association. 2015. pp. 6– 7 . Retrieved 8 September 2019 . ^ "New BMW stores to be big, open, beige" . ^ "Geniuses smart move for dealers, BMW says" . ^ Foy, Henry (29 December 2013). "Online showrooms and digital dealerships revolutionise car buying" . FT. Archived from the original on 2 July 2014 . Retrieved 22 November 2021 . ^ Singh, Sarwant. "The Future of Car Retailing" . Forbes . Archived from the original on 29 April 2017. ^ "Mercedes-Benz growth strategy dominates 2013" . daimler.com . 2 January 2014. Archived from the original on 8 January 2014 . Retrieved 6 December 2022 . ^ "Dealer or no dealer: Tesla's sales model under fire" . america.aljazeera.com . Retrieved 12 July 2023 . ^ Bodisch, Gerald R. (May 2009). "Economic Effects of State Bans on Direct Manufacturer Sales to Car Buyers" . United States Department of Justice. Archived from the original on 19 June 2015 . Retrieved 21 August 2016 . ^ "Tesla sets up shop in Dallas -- minus test-drives and sales" . ^ "Tesla: we're not car dealerships" . 6 June 2014. Archived from the original on 30 May 2016. ^ "The Perfect Tesla Store" . tesla.com . Archived from the original on 6 December 2017. ^ Gross, Daniel (11 April 2016). "Tesla's Real Innovation Isn't the Electric Car" . Slate . Archived from the original on 6 December 2017. ^ "Inside the rise of 'stealerships' and the shady economics of car buying" . NPR . 2022. ^ "State Franchise Law Carjacks Auto Buyers" . ^ "Death of a car salesman" . The Economist . 20 August 2015 . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ DePillis, Lydia (1 June 2017). "Auto dealerships are America's most powerful middlemen" . chron.com . ^ Girotra, Karan; Netessine, Serguei (21 March 2014). "The Fight Over Tesla Shows How Little Value Dealerships Add" . Harvard Business Review . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ Ellig, Jerry; Martinez, Jesse (30 March 2015). "Auto Franchise Laws Restrict Consumer Choice and Increase Prices" . Mercatus Center George Mason University . Retrieved 30 October 2025 . ^ Yglesias, Matthew (26 October 2014). "Car dealers are awful. It's time to kill the dumb laws that keep them in business" . Vox . Retrieved 2 October 2020 . ^ a b Calma, Justine (12 May 2023). "What two-thirds of car dealerships are missing in the US" . The Verge . ^ Irfan, Umair (8 May 2023). "Why most car dealers still don't have any electric vehicles" . Vox . Retrieved 31 May 2023 . ^ Wayland, Michael (28 January 2023). "Carmakers face a crossroads as they work to fit auto dealers into their EV plans" . CNBC . Retrieved 31 May 2023 . ^ a b "Car industry at the crossroads" . POLITICO . 5 September 2001. ^ a b "European car dealers win right to multi-francise [sic]" . The Irish Times . 2006. ^ Campbell, Peter (2 March 2021). "Volvo Cars to go all electric by 2030 as it shifts sales online" . Financial Times . ^ Apeldoorn, Robert Van (22 November 2021). "Acheter sa voiture sur le net, une évolution qui pourrait bouleverser la vente via les concessionnaires" . Trends-Tendances (in French) . Retrieved 30 November 2023 . ^ "Publications - European Commission" (PDF) . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2 April 2015 . Retrieved 22 March 2015 . ^ Blanco, Sebastian. "First EVEN EV store opens in Iceland's biggest shopping mall" . Archived from the original on 6 April 2015. Further reading [ edit ] Genat, Robert (2004). The American Car Dealership . Motorbooks International. ISBN 9780760319345 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Automobile dealerships . EU car dealership reforms v t e Retail Key concepts Counter display unit Display stand Endcap Facing Free standing display unit Gondola History of retail Merchandising Visual merchandising Point of sale display Retail design Retail merchandising unit Self-service Shelf-ready packaging By product Agricultural supplies Alcohol Antiques Automotive fuel Automotive parts Beauty products Books Cannabis Catering Mobile Chocolate Clothes Comics Confectionery Consumer electronics Cycles Doujin shop Dry goods Equestrian supplies Eyewear Fish Flowers Food Food service Fruit stand Furniture Garden centre Gardening supplies General merchandise Gold Greengrocer Grocery Public grocery Guns Hardware Health food Herbal tea Hobby supplies Home decor Home improvement products Ironmongery Jewellery Lingerie Lumber Magic supplies Meat Medications Medicinal plants Music Musical instruments News Office supplies Outdoor equipment Party supplies Personal accessories Pets and pet supplies Real estate Religious goods Sexual goods Shoes Skateboarding supplies Sporting goods Survival equipment Tickets Resale Online Tobacco Toys Vaping products Vehicles Video games By format Anchor tenant Automat Automated retail Big-box store Boot fair Boutique Brick and mortar Bring and buy sale Butcher shop Car boot sale Cash and carry Cashierless store Category killer Chain store Charity shop Closeout store Company store Consignment shop Consignment store (East Asia) Convenience store Automated convenience store Corner store Mini-mart Mini market Superette Dark store Department store Junior department store Public department store Discount store E-commerce Estate sale Experiential commerce Experiential retail Factory outlet Factory store Flash retailing Free box Freeshop Free store Garage sale General store Give-away shop Haberdasher Head shop High Street Honesty box Hospice shop Hyperstore Immersive commerce Inspect and pay Jumble sale Junk shop Lifestyle store Main Street Mall kiosk Market Bazaar Christmas market Dark market Dry market Grey market Farmers' market Fish market Flea market Floating market Hypermarket Marketplace Online marketplace Market booth Market hall Market stall Market square Mart Meat market Mercado Morning market Pasar pagi Night market Pasar malam Open-air market Palengke Pannier market Public market Souk Street market Supermarket warehouse supermarket Tianguis Traditional market Wet market Megastore Micro-retailing Military cooperative Moving sale Non-store retailing Off-price Omnichannel retail strategy Online grocer Online retailing Opportunity shop Outlet store Pop-up retail Pop-up shop Pop-up store Pretail Resale shop Retail kiosk Rummage sale Second-hand shop Shop-in-shop Shopping center Big-box center Community center Festival center Festival marketplace Galleria Lifestyle center Neighborhood shopping center Outlet center Outlet mall Pedestrian mall Plaza Power center Retail park Shopping arcade Shopping complex Shopping mall Shopping plaza Shopping precinct Strip center Strip mall Strip plaza Theme center Showroom Smartstore Smart shop Specialty store Store-within-a-store Supercenter Superstore Swap meet Indoor swap meet Swap shop Tag sale Thrift store Unmanned store Variety store Dollar store Five and dime store Vending machine Warehouse club Warehouse store Web store White elephant sale Wholesale club Yard sale By type Arabber Boutique Braderie Butcher shop Concession stand Cooked food centre Costermonger Direct sellers Duty-free shop Etsy Witches Food booth Food cart Food court Food hall Food kiosk Food stall Food stand Food truck Gift shop Hawker Hawker centre Ice cream truck Ice cream van Museum shop Pawn shop Peddler Pharmacies Refreshment stand Snack bar Snack kiosk Souvenir shop Surplus store Tack shop Tax-free shopping Tuck shop Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Car_dealership&oldid=1320495132 " Categories : Vehicle retailers Auto dealerships Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with limited geographic scope from April 2020 Use dmy dates from July 2020 Articles to be expanded from May 2023 All articles to be expanded Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles prone to spam from April 2015