https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69859995/the-perfect-stocking-stuffer-bobby-rahals-toyota-2000gt

BaT (Update: The car sold for $995,000) Searching for the perfect last-minute gift for that certain special car person on your list? Have they been naughty or nice? If the latter, consider this 1967 Toyota 2000GT being auctioned right now on Bring a Trailer by the great Bobby Rahal himself. Bidding as of press time was $751,251 with two days left to go. So act now! Even if it wasn’t Christmas , this is a rare opportunity to buy one of the most collectible sports cars of all time. The 2000GT featured many advancements for its time. It features disc brakes front and rear as well as Toyota’s first use of rack-and-pinion steering . BaT The car was originally delivered to Mozambique, then sold to a party in Costa Rica, then to the U.S. The engine – we assume – must sound sweet, with three carbs feeding six cylinders all lined up in a row. Granted they make only 150 hp altogether, but the car is small and light. Emphasis on small. If your giftee is tallish, perhaps consider adding a Gurney Bubble to the roof (sacrilege?). When Sean Connery drove a 2000GT in You Only Live Twice , they built two convertibles for the film, just so he’d fit. BaT Not a lot of space inside, more elf- than Santa-appropriate. The car gets the seasonally appropriate solar red paint outside over a black interior. It’s also right-hand drive, so get ready to shift the five-speed manual with your left hand. But since all five gears are synchromeshed, that might not be a problem. It’s an award winner, too, winning its class at the 2024 Amelia Island Concours d’Elegance while Rahal owned it. Japanese Cars Are Becoming Classics 50+ Photos from the Japanese Classic Car Show Top Toyotas from 27th Annual All ToyotaFest Coolest Cars of the Japanese Classic Car Show Bidding still sits at $751,251 since we started writing this page, so who knows? A Carroll Shelby–tuned 2000GT went for $2.53 million in 2022, but does Rahal carry the cachet of Shelby? We’ll see. Typical 2000GT auction prices have hovered at just over $1 million. In the meantime, season's greetings to all! From: Autoweek Mark Vaughn Mark Vaughn grew up in a Ford family and spent many hours holding a trouble light over a straight-six miraculously fed by a single-barrel carburetor while his father cursed the Blue Oval, all its products and everyone who ever worked there. This was his introduction to objective automotive criticism. He started writing for City News Service in Los Angeles, then moved to Europe and became editor of a car magazine called, creatively, Auto. He decided Auto should cover Formula 1, sports prototypes and touring cars—no one stopped him! From there he interviewed with Autoweek at the 1989 Frankfurt motor show and has been with us ever since.