https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Navigation_light

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Lights on a vehicle indicating position, heading, and status "Position light" redirects here. For the railroad signals, see North American railroad signals § Position light signals . Basic lighting configuration. 2, a vessel facing directly towards observer; 4, vessel facing away from the observer Red and green navigation lights on an F-22 Raptor Red and green bottom navigation lights on SpaceX Dragon A navigation light , also known as a running or position light, is a source of illumination on a watercraft , aircraft or spacecraft , meant to give information on the craft's position, heading , or status. [ 1 ] Some navigation lights are colour-coded red and green to aid traffic control by identifying the craft's orientation. Their placement is mandated by international conventions or civil authorities such as the International Maritime Organization (IMO). A common misconception is that marine or aircraft navigation lights indicate which of two approaching vessels has the "right of way" as in ground traffic ; this is not precisely true, as aircraft and watercraft cannot stop to allow each other to pass, as ground vehicles do. However, the red and green colours do indicate which vessel has the duty to "give way" (change course or speed) or to "stand on" (hold course and speed). Consistent with the ground traffic convention, the rightmost of the two vehicles is usually given stand-on status and the leftmost must give way. Therefore a red light is used on the port (left) side to indicate "you must give way"; and a green light on the starboard (right) side indicates "I will give way; you must stand on". In case of two power-driven vessels approaching head-on, both are required to give way. Marine navigation [ edit ] In 1838 the United States passed an act requiring steamboats running between sunset and sunrise to carry one or more signal lights; colour, visibility and location were not specified. In 1846 the United Kingdom passed the Steam Navigation Act 1846 ( 9 & 10 Vict. c. 100) enabling the Lord High Admiral to publish regulations requiring all sea-going steam vessels to carry lights. [ 2 ] The admiralty exercised these powers in 1848 and required steam vessels to display red and green sidelights as well as a white masthead light whilst under way and a single white light when at anchor. [ 3 ] In 1849 the U.S. Congress extended the light requirements to sailing vessels. In 1889 the United States convened the first International Maritime Conference to consider regulations for preventing collisions. The resulting Washington Conference Rules were adopted by the U.S. in 1890 and became effective internationally in 1897. Within these rules was the requirement for steamships to carry a second mast head light. The international 1948 Safety of Life at Sea Conference recommended a mandatory second masthead light solely for power-driven vessels over 150 feet (46 m) in length and a fixed sternlight for almost all vessels. The regulations have changed little since then. [ 4 ] The International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea (COLREGs) established in 1972 stipulates the requirements for navigation lights required on a vessel. Basic lighting [ edit ] Watercraft navigation lights must permit other vessels to determine the type and relative angle of a vessel, and thus decide if there is a danger of collision. In general, sailing vessels are required to carry a green light that shines from dead ahead to 2 points ( 22 + 1 ⁄ 2 °) abaft [ note 1 ] the beam on the starboard side (the right side from the perspective of someone on board facing forward), a red light from dead ahead to two points abaft the beam on the port side (left side) and a white light that shines from astern to two points abaft the beam on both sides. Power driven vessels in addition  to these lights, must carry either one or two (depending on length) white masthead lights that shine from ahead to two points abaft the beam on both sides. If two masthead lights are carried then the aft one must be higher than the forward one. Small power-driven vessels (under 12 metres (39 ft)) may carry a single all-round white light in place of the two or three white lights carried by larger vessels, they must also carry red and green navigation lights.  Vessels under 7 metres (23 ft) with a maximum speed of less than 7 knots (13 km/h; 8.1 mph) are not required to carry navigation lights, but must be capable of showing a white light. [ 5 ] Hovercraft at all times and some boats operating in crowded areas may also carry a yellow flashing beacon for added visibility during day or night. Lights of special significance [ edit ] In addition to red, white and green running lights, a combination of red, white and green mast lights placed on a mast higher than all the running lights, and viewable from all directions, may be used to indicate the type of craft or the service it is performing. See "User Guide" in external links. Ships at anchor display one or two white anchor lights (depending on the vessel's length) that can be seen from all directions. If two lights are shown then the forward light is higher than the aft one. Boats classed as "small" are not compelled to carry navigation lights and may make use of a hand-held flashlight . Aviation navigation [ edit ] Navigation lights Aft light Anti-collision strobe lights Logo light Aircraft are fitted with external navigational lights similar in purpose to those required on watercraft. [ 6 ] These are used to signal actions such as entering an active runway or starting up an engine. Historically, incandescent bulbs have been used to provide light; however, recently light-emitting diodes have been used. Aircraft navigation lights follow the convention of marine vessels established a half-century earlier, with a red navigation light located on the left wingtip leading edge and a green light on the right wingtip leading edge. A white navigation light is as far aft as possible on the tail or each wing tip. [ 7 ] High-intensity strobe lights are located on the aircraft to aid in collision avoidance . [ 8 ] Anti-collision lights are flashing lights on the top and bottom of the fuselage , wingtips and tail tip. Their purpose is to alert others when something is happening that ground crew and other aircraft need to be aware of, such as running engines or entering active runways. In civil aviation, pilots must keep navigation lights on from sunset to sunrise, even after engine shutdown when at the gate. High-intensity white strobe lights are part of the anti-collision light system, as well as the red flashing beacon. All aircraft built after 11 March 1996 must have an anti-collision light system (strobe lights or rotating beacon) turned on for all flight activities in poor visibility. The anti-collision system is recommended in good visibility, where only strobes and beacon are required can use white (clear) lights to increase conspicuity during the daytime. For example, just before pushback, the pilot must keep the beacon lights on to notify ground crews that the engines are about to start. These beacon lights stay on for the duration of the flight. While taxiing, the taxi lights are on. When coming onto the runway, the taxi lights go off and the landing lights and strobes go on. When passing 10,000 feet, the landing lights are no longer required, and the pilot can elect to turn them off. The same cycle in reverse order applies when landing. Landing lights are bright white, forward and downward facing lights on the front of an aircraft. Their purpose is to allow the pilot to see the landing area, and to allow ground crew to see the approaching aircraft. Civilian commercial airliners also have other non-navigational lights. These include logo lights, which illuminate the company logo on the tail fin. These lights are optional to turn on, though most pilots switch them on at night to increase visibility from other aircraft. Modern airliners also have a wing light. These are positioned on the outer side just in front of the engine cowlings on the fuselage . These are not required to be on, but in some cases pilots turn these lights on for engine checks and also while passengers board the aircraft for better visibility of the ground near the aircraft.  While seldom seen, the International Code of Signals allows for the exclusive use of flashing blue lights (60 to 100 flashes/minute), visible from as many directions as possible, by medical aircraft to signal their identity. [ 9 ] Spacecraft navigation [ edit ] In 2011, ORBITEC developed the first light-emitting diode (LED) system for use as running lights on spacecraft.  Currently, Cygnus spacecraft , which are uncrewed transport vessels designed for cargo transport to the International Space Station , utilize a navigational lighting system consisting of five flashing high power LED lights. [ 10 ] The Cygnus displays a flashing red light on the port side of the vessel, a flashing green on the starboard side of the vessel, two flashing white lights on the top and one flashing yellow on the bottom side of the fuselage . [ citation needed ] The SpaceX Dragon and Dragon 2 spacecraft also feature a flashing strobe along with red and green lights. Modern technology [ edit ] Recent developments in navigation lighting have focused on energy efficiency, visibility, and integration with other avionics systems. Light-emitting diode (LED) technology has largely replaced incandescent bulbs on modern aircraft, providing longer lifespan and reduced maintenance. Some advanced aircraft models incorporate automatic brightness adjustment based on ambient light sensors to enhance visibility without dazzling other pilots. Navigation lights are also integrated into aircraft health monitoring systems, enabling crews and maintenance personnel to detect failures through cockpit alerts. These innovations align with broader aviation safety modernization efforts led by the Federal Aviation Administration and the International Civil Aviation Organization. [ 11 ] See also [ edit ] Formation light Landing lights Notes [ edit ] ^ abaft : to the rear/closer to stern/'aft' References [ edit ] ^ Wragg, David W. (1973). A Dictionary of Aviation (first ed.). Osprey. p. 200. ISBN 9780850451634 . ^ 9th and 10th Vic. c. 100: "An act for the regulation of steam navigation, and for requiring sea-going vessels to carry boats , pp. 623– 624 , retrieved 6 July 2019 ^ "Steamers' lights – to prevent collision" . The London Gazette . No. 20876. 11 July 1848. p. 2606. ^ Handbook of the Nautical Rules of the Road Llana and Wisneskey ^ "Amalgamated International & U.S. Inland Navigation Rules: Part C - Lights and Shapes" . United States Coast Guard Navigation Center . Retrieved July 18, 2022 . ^ "AC 20-30B - Aircraft Position Light and Anticollision Light Installations – Document Information" . www.faa.gov . Retrieved 6 April 2018 . ^ "14 CFR 25.1385, "Position light system installation" " . Archived from the original on 2017-09-20 . Retrieved 2012-12-09 . ^ "14 CFR 23.1401, "Anticollision light system" " . Archived from the original on 2017-09-20 . Retrieved 2012-12-09 . ^ http://www.seasources.net/PDF/PUB102.pdf page 146 ^ "ORBITEC Delivers First-Ever LED Lighting System for Orbital Science's Cygnus Module Spacecraft Navigation Lighting" . Archived from the original on 2013-08-20 . Retrieved 2013-04-13 . ^ Langfield, Mandy (March 4, 2025). "Interview: Supporting safety from every angle (Chris Baur, CEO of Hughes Aerospace)" . AirMed & Rescue . Retrieved October 2, 2025 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Navigational lights . Navigation Lights User Guide at the Wayback Machine (archived May 9, 2021) v t e Aircraft components and systems Airframe structure Aft pressure bulkhead Cabane strut Canopy Crack arrestor Cruciform tail Dope Empennage Fabric covering Fairing Flying wires Former Fuselage Hardpoint Interplane strut Jury strut Leading edge Lift strut Longeron Nacelle Rib Spar Stabilizer Stressed skin Strut T-tail Tailplane Trailing edge Triple tail Twin tail V-tail Vertical stabilizer Wing root Wing tip Wingbox Flight controls Aileron Airbrake Artificial feel Autopilot Canard Centre stick Deceleron Dive brake Dual control Electro-hydraulic actuator Elevator Elevon Flaperon Flight control modes Fly-by-wire Gust lock HOTAS Rudder Rudder pedals Servo tab Side-stick Spoiler Spoileron Stabilator Stick pusher Stick shaker Trim tab Wing warping Yaw damper Yoke Aerodynamic and high-lift devices Active Aeroelastic Wing Adaptive compliant wing Anti-shock body Blown flap Channel wing Dog-tooth Drag-reducing aerospike Flap Gouge flap Gurney flap Krueger flap Leading-edge cuff Leading-edge droop flap LEX Slats Slot Stall strips Strake Variable-sweep wing Vortex generator Vortilon Wing fence Winglet Avionic and flight instrument systems ACAS Air data boom Air data computer Aircraft periscope Airspeed indicator Altimeter Annunciator panel Astrodome Attitude indicator Compass Course deviation indicator EFIS EICAS Flight management system Glass cockpit GPS Head-up display Heading indicator Horizontal situation indicator INS ISIS Multi-function display Pitot–static system Radar altimeter TCAS Transponder Turn and slip indicator Variometer Yaw string Propulsion controls, devices and fuel systems Autothrottle Drop tank FADEC Fuel tank Gascolator Inlet cone Intake ramp NACA cowling NACA duct Self-sealing fuel tank Splitter plate Throttle Thrust lever Thrust reversal Townend ring War emergency power Wet wing Landing and arresting gear Aircraft tire Arrestor hook Autobrake Conventional landing gear Drogue parachute Landing gear Landing gear extender Oleo strut Tricycle landing gear Tundra tire Escape systems Ejection seat Escape crew capsule Other systems Aircraft lavatory Auxiliary power unit Bleed air system Deicing boot Emergency oxygen system Environmental control system Flight recorder Hydraulic system Ice protection system In-flight entertainment system Landing lights Navigation light Passenger service unit Ram air turbine v t e Lighting Concepts Accent lighting Color rendering index Color temperature Electric light Glare Light fixture Light pollution Hawaii Hong Kong Lightbulb socket Bi-pin lamp base Edison screw Luminous efficacy Task lighting Methods of generation Incandescent Regular Edison Halogen Nernst Luminescent Cathodoluminescent Electron-stimulated Chemiluminescent Electrochemiluminescence Electroluminescent field-induced polymer Fluorescent Fluorescent lamp ( compact ) Fluorescent induction Photoluminescent Laser headlamp Radioluminescence Solid-state LED lamp Combustion Acetylene/Carbide Argand Campfire Candle Carcel Diya Flare Gas Kerosene Petromax Lantern Fanous Paper Limelight Luchina Magnesium torch Oil Qulliq Rushlight Safety Tilley Torch Electric arc Carbon arc Klieg light Yablochkov candle Gas discharge Deuterium arc Neon Neon lamp Plasma Sulfur Xenon arc Xenon flash High-intensity discharge (HID) Mercury-vapor Metal-halide ceramic Hydrargyrum medium-arc iodide (HMI) Hydrargyrum quartz iodide (HQI) Sodium vapor Stationary Reflector Ellipsoidal reflector Multifaceted reflector Parabolic aluminized reflector (PAR) Aviation obstruction Balanced-arm lamp Chandelier Emergency light Gas lighting Gooseneck lamp Intelligent street lighting Light tube Marine aid to navigation light Nightlight Neon lighting Pendant light Recessed light Sconce Street light in the US Torchère Track lighting Troffer Portable Bicycle lighting Flashlight Mechanically powered Tactical Glow stick Headlamp outdoor Lantern Laser pointer Navigation light Searchlight Solar lamp Automotive Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam Rear position lights Reversing lights Safety reflector retroreflector Stop lights Turn signals trafficators Display Decorative Aroma lamp Blacklight Bubble light Christmas lights Crackle tube DJ lighting Electroluminescent wire Lava lamp Marquee Plasma globe Strobe light Theatrical Cinematic Floodlight Footlight Gobo Scoop Spotlight ellipsoidal reflector Stage lighting instrument Industrial Scientific Germicidal Grow light Infrared lamp Stroboscope Tanning Related topics Battlefield illumination Bioluminescence Laser Light art Luminous gemstones Signal lamp Sources Reflected Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Navigation_light&oldid=1325133037 " Categories : Aerospace engineering Aircraft external lights Nautical terminology Signalling lights Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use British English from July 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in British English All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2022 Commons category link is on Wikidata Webarchive template wayback links