https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_architecture

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article may incorporate text from a large language model . It may include hallucinated information, copyright violations , claims not verified in cited sources, original research , or fictitious references . Any such material should be removed , and content with an unencyclopedic tone should be rewritten. ( August 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Type of architecture Volkswagen cogeneration plant in Wolfsburg, Germany , built in 1938 as part of the main Volkswagen factory Walter Baker & Company located in Dorchester , Massachusetts along the Neponset River . The company was founded in 1780 and is one of the first companies in the United States to produce chocolate . Industrial architecture is the design and construction of buildings facilitating the needs of the industrial sector . The architecture revolving around the industrial world uses a variety of building designs and styles to consider the safe flow, distribution and production of goods and labor. [ 1 ] Such buildings rose in importance with the Industrial Revolution , starting in Britain , and were some of the pioneering structures of modern architecture . [ 2 ] Many of the architectural buildings revolving around the industry allowed for processing, manufacturing, distribution, and the storage of goods and resources. Architects also have to consider the safety measurements and workflow to ensure the smooth flow within the work environment located in the building. [ 1 ] Industrial architect [ edit ] See also: architect Industrial architects specialize in designing and planning of industrial buildings or infrastructure. They integrate different processes, machinery, equipment and industrial building code requirements into functional industrial buildings. They follow quality standards to ensure that industrial building are safely built for production or human use. Industrial architects are responsible for the design and planning of the following: markets, warehouses, factories, processing plants, power plants, commercial facilities, etc. [ 3 ] History [ edit ] Industrial Revolution [ edit ] British industrial architecture : Murrays' Mills (for cotton) on the Rochdale Canal , Manchester, begun in 1797, and then forming the longest mill range in the world Britain played an important role in the Industrial Revolution , which stimulated the expansion of trade  and distribution of goods amongst Europe and the Atlantic Ocean. The technological advances from Europe were later spread to the United States in the late 1700s. Samuel Slater fled to the United States and later opened a textile mill in Rhode Island; shortly after that the cotton gin was invented by Eli Whitney . [ 4 ] One of the first industrial buildings were built in Britain in the 1700s during the First Industrial Revolution , which later inspired other industrial architecture to arise throughout the world. The First Industrial Revolution lasted from mid-1700s to the mid-1800s and then later the Second Industrial Revolution came about which mainly focused on the use of new materials and production of goods. [ 1 ] 1700s [ edit ] One of the earliest industrial buildings were relativity built at a domestic scale, for instance workshops for local craftsmen. [ 2 ] 1700s–1850s [ edit ] This time period was the transformation of the British economy. The population in England had increased to 16 million people around 1841, with the majority moving to Northern Europe. Factories had been built and production in the factories had become dominant; production was not on a large-scale. [ 2 ] Post-Industrial Revolution [ edit ] The Moulin Saulnier , originally a watermill, now part of the Menier chocolate factory in Noisiel , France. Built in 1872, it was the first building in the world with a visible metallic structure. The birth of all industrial architecture stemmed from England and the continuing expansions of the architecture was a product of the Industrial Revolution. [ 5 ] The usage and production of iron and steel became more prominent since they were used as the foundation for the industrial buildings. Steel is a durable material and was also used in other parts of the industry such as infrastructure , but it was difficult to make because it required high temperature to melt the metal. [ 5 ] 1850s–1914 [ edit ] Britain saw an increase in production during this time period. Railways played an important role in transportation and distribution of resources throughout Europe and the United States. Industrial buildings were built at a larger scale to accommodate large machinery used in food production such as flour mills and breweries . With the implementation of the Planning Act of 1909 , the industry had a significant impact on the siting and layout of industrial facilities as it continued to progress throughout the years. [ 2 ] 1914 to present [ edit ] As architecture became modernized throughout the years, the more traditional industrial sites throughout Europe and the United States continued to decrease. For instance, coal is a raw material that was heavily used throughout the industrial revolution, so there were coal mines. Buildings continued to increase in size to accommodate mass production. The overall design of modern-day buildings is sleeker and more spacious. [ 2 ] The early 20th century saw multi-story factories influenced by high land costs and the need for vertical movement of goods. However, later designs, such as the one-story factories of the World War II era, became more prevalent due to their flexibility, ease of construction, and suitability for assembly lines. These designs also focused on the well-being of workers, with features like natural light, air, and better working conditions to boost productivity. [ 6 ] The Future [ edit ] Modern industrial architecture integrates smart technology, adaptable designs, and sustainable materials. Abandoned industrial spaces are frequently transformed into residential, commercial, or mixed-use developments, supporting urban revitalization. This design style, characterized by open layouts, exposed utilities, and eco-friendly materials, is popular in both urban and suburban settings, highlighting green living and historic charm. Repurposed structures play a key role in urban renewal, revitalizing neglected areas into thriving hubs for housing, businesses, and cultural activities. [ 7 ] The future of industrial architecture is influenced by technological advancements such as automation, robotics, and integration of smart systems, which enhance efficiency, productivity, and safety. As manufacturing evolves, industrial buildings will continue to adapt, with a focus on sustainability and collaborative work environments. [ 8 ] Some key elements to industrial buildings [ edit ] Industrial buildings are typically characterized by large, open spaces, high ceilings, and minimal ornamentation, utilizing durable materials like concrete, brick, metal, and glass. The design prioritizes practicality, with elements like exposed structural components and raw materials. Functional principles include adaptability for changing production needs, efficient circulation, zoning for different tasks, and proper ventilation. [ 8 ] High ceilings [ 1 ] Functionality and design [ 1 ] Large windows [ 1 ] Large, open floor plans [ 1 ] Built to safety standards Types of Industrial Buildings [ edit ] Brewery Distillery Drilling rig Factory Forge Foundry Gristmill Mine Power plant Refinery Sawmill Waterworks Warehouse References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f g Hohendal, Kristin (February 7, 2022). "Learn all about Industrial Architecture" . The Spruce . Retrieved March 9, 2023 . ^ a b c d e Historic England (April 2011). "Historical Summary". Industrial Buildings: Listing Selection Guide . Historic England . pp. 2– 6. ^ "An Analysis: What do Industrial Architects do?" . Bright Hub . Retrieved March 17, 2023 . ^ Yuko, Elizabeth (November 18, 2021). "How the Industrial Revolution fueled the Growth of Cities?" . History . Retrieved March 17, 2023 . ^ a b "Victorian Industrial Structure" . Victorian Era . May 7, 2020 . Retrieved March 20, 2023 . ^ "FACTORY" . architecture-history.org . Retrieved 2024-11-24 . ^ "A Guide to Industrial Architecture" . insights.jonite.com . 22 August 2019 . Retrieved 2024-11-24 . ^ a b Huyssteen, Justin van (2023-05-29). "Industrial Architecture - Principles of Modern Industrial Architecture" . Art in Context . Retrieved 2024-11-24 . Further reading [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Industrial architecture . Bradley, Betsy Hunter. The Works: The Industrial Architecture of the United States . New York: Oxford University Press, 1999. Jefferies, Matthew. Politics and Culture in Wilhelmine Germany: The Case of Industrial Architecture . Washington, D.C.: Berg, 1995. Jevremović, Ljiljana; Turnšek, Branko A. J.; Vasić, Milanka; and Jordanović, Marina. "Passive Design Applications: Industrial Architecture Perspective", Facta Universitatis Series: Architecture and Civil Engineering , Vol. 12, No. 2 (2014):  173–82. Jones, Edgar (1985). Industrial Architecture in Britain: 1750–1939 . Oxford: Facts on File . ISBN 978-0-8160-1295-4 . OCLC 12286054 . McGowan, F.; Radosevic, S.; and Tunzelmann, N. von. Emerging Industrial Architecture in Europe . Hoboken: Taylor and Francis, 2004. Pearson, Lynn (2016). Victorian and Edwardian British Industrial Architecture . Crowood Press. ISBN 978-1-78500-189-5 . OCLC 959428302 . Pragnell, Hubert J. (2021) [2000]. Industrial Britain: an Architectural History . Batsford . ISBN 978-1-84994-733-6 . OCLC 1259509747 . Winter, John (1970). Industrial Architecture: A Survey of Factory Building . London: Studio Vista. OCLC 473557982 . v t e History of architecture Architectural timeline History of construction BCE Neolithic Vernacular Mesopotamian Nabataean Ancient Egyptian Aegean Minoan Mycenaean Etruscan Classical Ancient Greek Ancient Roman Herodian Achaemenid 1st millennium Sasanian Byzantine East Slavic Kievan Rus' Muscovite Islamic Umayyad Moorish Abbasid Fatimid Medieval Scandinavian Pre-Romanesque Carolingian 1000–1500 Romanesque Galician Ottonian Norman Indian Hoysala Vijayanagara Western Chalukya Islamic Great Seljuk Anatolian Seljuk architecture Mamluk Timurid Ottoman Indo-Islamic Romano-Gothic Gothic Sondergotik Venetian Mudéjar Incan Aztec Renaissance Plateresque 1500–1750 Manueline Palladian Dutch Colonial Spanish Colonial Portuguese Colonial Mughal Sikh French Provincial 1750–1900 Baroque Andean Czech Dutch Earthquake English French Italian Maltese Petrine Elizabethan Naryshkin Portuguese Siberian Ukrainian Industrial British Revivalism Byzantine Russo-Byzantine Serbo-Byzantine Colonial Dutch Colonial Egyptian Gothic Greek Mayan Mediterranean Mission Monumentalism Baroque Rococo Neoclassical Moorish Revival Mughal Neo-Manueline Neo-Mudéjar Pueblo Queen Anne Britain America and Australia Renaissance Romanesque Rundbogenstil Romanian Russian Spanish Colonial Territorial Tudor Venetian Gothic Revival Art Nouveau Jugendstil Liberty style Modern Style Modernisme Ukrainian Swiss chalet Victorian Carpenter Gothic Collegiate Gothic Bristol Byzantine Richardsonian Romanesque 1900–1950 Rationalism Mycenaean Modern Edwardian Prairie School Expressionism Cubism De Stijl Bauhaus Constructivism New Objectivity Streamline Moderne Totalitarianism Imperial Crown Rationalist-Fascist Nazi Stalinist International style Functionalism Futurism Organicism Art Deco Stripped Classicism Postconstructivism PWA Moderne Googie Mid-century modern 1950–2000 Brutalism Structuralism New Khmer Postmodern Blobitecture High-tech Arcology Critical regionalism Neo-futurism Art Deco Revival 2000–present Neo-Chinese Deconstructivism Neomodern New Classical Contemporary Regional Chinese Islamic Colonial Indian Dravidian Hindu Iranian Japanese Korean Mesoamerican Maya Newari Portuguese Russian Spanish Somali Yemeni v t e Construction Types Home construction Offshore construction Underground construction Tunnel construction History Architecture Construction Industrialization Infrastructure Structural engineering Timeline of architecture Water supply and sanitation World's tallest buildings Professions Architect Building engineer Building estimator Building officials Chartered Building Surveyor Civil engineer Civil estimator Clerk of works Project manager Quantity surveyor Site manager Structural engineer Superintendent Trades workers ( List ) Banksman Boilermaker Bricklayer Carpenter Concrete finisher Construction foreman Construction worker Electrician Glazier Ironworker Millwright Plasterer Plumber Roofer Steel fixer Welder Organizations American Institute of Constructors (AIC) American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Asbestos Testing and Consultancy Association (ATAC) Associated General Contractors of America (AGC) Association of Plumbing and Heating Contractors (APHC) Build UK Construction History Society Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES) Chartered Institute of Plumbing and Heating Engineering (CIPHE) Civil Engineering Contractors Association (CECA) The Concrete Society Construction Management Association of America (CMAA) Construction Specifications Institute (CSI) FIDIC Home Builders Federation (HBF) Lighting Association National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) National Kitchen & Bath Association (NKBA) National Railroad Construction and Maintenance Association (NRC) National Tile Contractors Association (NTCA) Railway Tie Association (RTA) Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Scottish Building Federation (SBF) Society of Construction Arbitrators By country India Iran Japan Romania Taiwan Turkey United Kingdom United States Regulation Building code Construction law Site safety Zoning Architecture Style List Industrial architecture British Indigenous architecture Interior architecture Landscape architecture Vernacular architecture Engineering Architectural engineering Building services engineering Civil engineering Coastal engineering Construction engineering Structural engineering Earthquake engineering Environmental engineering Geotechnical engineering Methods List Earthbag construction Modern methods of construction Monocrete construction Slip forming Other topics Building material List of building materials Millwork Builder's signature Builders' rites Construction bidding Construction delay Construction equipment theft Cornerstone Floor loan Construction management Construction waste Demolition Design–build Design–bid–build DFMA Heavy equipment Interior design Illegal construction Lists of buildings and structures Megaproject Megastructure Plasterwork Damp Proofing Parge coat Roughcast Harling Real estate development Real-estate bubble Stonemasonry Sustainability Topping out Unfinished building Urban design Urban planning Outline Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Industrial_architecture&oldid=1309002238 " Categories : Industrial buildings and structures Architecture Hidden categories: Articles containing suspected AI-generated texts from August 2025 Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata