https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_fluid

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Transmission fluid ) Medium to transfer power in hydraulic machinery Hydraulic fluid being poured into a storage container A hydraulic fluid or hydraulic liquid is the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery . Common hydraulic fluids are based on mineral oil or water. [ 1 ] Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids are excavators and backhoes , hydraulic brakes , power steering systems, automatic transmissions , garbage trucks , aircraft flight control systems , lifts , and industrial machinery . Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the hydraulic fluid used has zero compressibility . Functions and properties [ edit ] The primary function of a hydraulic fluid is to convey power. In use, however, there are other important functions of hydraulic fluid such as protection of the hydraulic machine components. The table below lists the major functions of a hydraulic fluid and the properties of a fluid that affect its ability to perform that function: [ 2 ] Function Property Power transmission and control medium Non compressible (high bulk modulus ) Fast air release Low foaming tendency Low volatility Medium for heat transfer Good thermal capacity and conductivity Sealing medium Adequate viscosity and viscosity index Shear stability Lubricant Viscosity for film maintenance Low temperature fluidity Thermal and oxidative stability Hydrolytic stability / water tolerance Cleanliness and filterability Demulsibility Antiwear characteristics Corrosion control Pump efficiency Proper viscosity to minimize internal leakage High viscosity index Special function Fire resistance Friction modifications Radiation resistance Environmental impact Low toxicity when new or decomposed Biodegradability Functioning life Material compatibility Composition [ edit ] Base stock [ edit ] The original hydraulics fluid, dating back to the time of ancient Egypt , was water . [ citation needed ] Beginning in the 1920s, mineral oil began to be used more than water as a base stock due to its inherent lubrication properties and ability to be used at temperatures above the boiling point of water. Today most hydraulic fluids are based on mineral oil base stocks. Natural oils such as rapeseed are used as base stocks for fluids where biodegradability and renewable sources are considered important. Other base stocks are used for specialty applications, such as for fire resistance and extreme temperature applications. Some examples include: glycol ethers , organophosphate ester , polyalphaolefin , propylene glycol , and silicone oils . NaK -77, a eutectic alloy of sodium and potassium , can be used as a hydraulic fluid in high-temperature and high-radiation environments, for temperature ranges of 10 to 1,400 °F (−12 to 760 °C). Its bulk modulus at 1,000 °F (538 °C) is 310,000 psi (2.14 GPa), higher than of a hydraulic oil at room temperature. Its lubricity is poor, so positive-displacement pumps are unsuitable and centrifugal pumps have to be used. The addition of caesium shifts the useful temperature range to −95 to 1,300 °F (−71 to 704 °C). The NaK-77 alloy was tested in hydraulic and fluidic systems for the Supersonic Low Altitude Missile . [ 3 ] Other components [ edit ] Hydraulic fluids can contain a wide range of chemical compounds, including: oils , butanol , esters (e.g. phthalates , like DEHP , and adipates , like bis(2-ethylhexyl) adipate ), polyalkylene glycols (PAG), organophosphate (e.g. tributylphosphate ), silicones, alkylated aromatic hydrocarbons, polyalphaolefins (PAO) (e.g. polyisobutenes ), corrosion inhibitors (incl acid scavengers ), anti- erosion additives, etc. Biodegradable hydraulic fluids [ edit ] Environmentally sensitive applications (e.g. farm tractors and marine dredging ) may benefit from using biodegradable hydraulic fluids based upon rapeseed vegetable oil when there is the risk of an oil spill from a ruptured oil line. Typically these oils are available as ISO 32, ISO 46, and ISO 68 specification oils. ASTM standards ASTM-D-6006, Guide for Assessing Biodegradability of Hydraulic Fluids and ASTM-D-6046, Standard Classification of Hydraulic Fluids for Environmental Impact are relevant. Anti-wear hydraulic fluids [ edit ] Anti-wear (AW) hydraulic oils are made from a petroleum base fluid and commonly contain the anti-wear additive Zinc dialkyldithiophosphate (ZDDP) . This additive works to protect the hydraulic pump. They come in multiple viscosity grades that have varying applications. For example, AW 46 hydraulic oils can be used to operate the hydraulic systems in off-road equipment such as dump trucks, excavators, and backhoes, while AW 32 hydraulic oils may be more suitable for colder weather applications like in a snow plow's pump. [ 4 ] Safety [ edit ] Because industrial hydraulic systems operate at hundreds to thousands of PSI and temperatures reaching hundreds of degrees Celsius, severe injuries and death can result from component failures and care must always be taken when performing maintenance on hydraulic systems. [ 5 ] Fire resistance is a property available with specialized fluids. Water-glycol and polyol-ester are some of these specialized fluids that contain excellent thermal and hydrolytic properties, which aid in fire resistance. [ 6 ] Uses [ edit ] Brake fluid [ edit ] Brake fluid is a subtype of hydraulic fluid with high boiling point , both when new (specified by the equilibrium boiling point) and after absorption of water vapor (specified by wet boiling point). Under the heat of braking, both free water and water vapor in a braking system can boil into a compressible vapor , resulting in brake failure. [ 7 ] Glycol-ether based fluids are hygroscopic , and absorbed moisture will greatly reduce the boiling point over time. Mineral oil and silicone based fluids are not hygroscopic. Power steering fluid [ edit ] Power steering fluid is a sub type of hydraulic fluid. Most are mineral oil or silicone based fluids, while some use automatic transmission fluid , made from synthetic base oil. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Automatic transmissions use fluids for their lubrication, cooling and hydraulic properties for viscous couplings . Use of the wrong type of fluid can lead to failure of the power steering pump. [ 8 ] Aircraft hydraulic systems [ edit ] As aircraft performance increased in the mid-20th century, the amount of force required to operate mechanical flight controls became excessive, and hydraulic systems were introduced to reduce pilot effort. The hydraulic actuators are controlled by valves; these in turn are operated directly by input from the aircrew (hydro-mechanical) or by computers obeying control laws (fly by wire). Hydraulic power is used for other purposes. It can be stored in accumulators to start an auxiliary power unit (APU) for self-starting the aircraft's main engines. Many aircraft equipped with the M61 family of cannon use hydraulic power to drive the gun system, permitting reliable high rates of fire. The hydraulic power itself comes from pumps driven by the engines directly, or by electrically driven pumps . In modern commercial aircraft these are electrically driven pumps; should all the engines fail in flight the pilot will deploy a propeller-driven electric generator called a Ram-Air Turbine (RAT) which is concealed under the fuselage. [ 10 ] This provides electrical power for the hydraulic pumps and control systems as power is no longer available from the engines. In that system and others, electric pumps can provide both redundancy and the means of operating hydraulic systems without the engines operating, which can be very useful during maintenance. Contamination [ edit ] Special, stringent care is required when handling aircraft hydraulic fluid, as it is critical to flight safety that it stay free from contamination. It is also necessary to strictly adhere to authorized references when servicing or repairing any aircraft system. Samples from aircraft hydraulic systems are taken during heavy aircraft maintenance checks (primarily C and D checks) to check contamination. [ 11 ] Military Spec 1246C is one fluid contamination specification. The ISO fluid contamination scale assigns a contamination category based on particle size count and distribution. [ 12 ] Other uses [ edit ] The properties of HLP 32 hydraulic oil make it ideal for lubricating machine tools. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] Specifications [ edit ] According to DIN 51502 [ edit ] Source: [ 15 ] [ 16 ] HL: With agents to enhance corrosion protection and age resistance. Used in hydraulic systems that do not pose any requirements as to wear protection. HLP: With agents to enhance corrosion protection and age resistance. Suitable for most fields of application and components. HLPD: As HLP but also used in systems where solid or liquid contamination need to be kept temporarily suspended. HVLP: With agents to enhance corrosion protection, age resistance, to reduce scuffing wear in mixed friction areas, and to improve the viscosity-temperature behavior. Used in system operated over a wide temperature range. HVLPD: As HVLP but also used in systems where solid or liquid contamination need to be kept temporarily suspended. According to MIL for military applications [ edit ] Source: [ 15 ] Mil-PRF-5606 (originally Mil-H-5606): Mineral base, flammable, fairly low flashpoint, usable from  −65 to 275 °F (−54 to 135 °C), red color, developed in the 1940s [ 17 ] MIL-PRF-6083: Usable from −54 °C to 135 °C "where corrosion protection is required and a determination has been made that MIL-PRF-46170 (FRH) hydraulic fluid cannot be used. This includes use in recoil mechanisms and hydraulic systems for rotating weapons or aiming devices of tactical and support ordnance equipment, except combat armored vehicles/equipment which require FRH. The hydraulic fluid is also used as a preservative fluid for aircraft hydraulic systems and components where MIL-H-5606 (OHA) or MIL-PRF-87257 is used as an operational fluid." [ 18 ] Synthetic hydrocarbon base:
These synthetic fluids are compatible with mineral-base hydraulic fluids and were developed to address the low flash point draw back of mineral based hydraulic fluids. [ 17 ] Mil-H-83282: Synthetic hydrocarbon base, higher flashpoint, self-extinguishing, backward compatible to -5606, red color, rated to −40 °F (−40 °C) degrees. Mil-H-87257: A development of -83282 fluid to improve its low temperature viscosity. Multi purpose oil UTTO/STOU [ edit ] Source: [ 15 ] [ 19 ] UTTO: Is an abbreviation for "Universal Tractor Transmission Oil". It is a hydraulic oil that can also be used in the transmissions and wet brakes of machines like tractors. STOU: Is an abbreviation for "Super Tractor Oil Universal". It is a hydraulic oil that can also be used in the motor, the transmissions and wet brakes. So its main difference to the UTTO oil is that it can be used also as an motor oil. Phosphate-ester base [ edit ] US/NATO Military specification - MIL-H-8446 Boeing Seattle - BMS3-11 Boeing Long Beach - DMS2014 Boeing Long Island - CDS5478 Lockheed - LAC C-34-1224 Airbus Industrie - NSA307110 British Aerospace - BAC M.333.B Bombardier - BAMS 564–003 SAE - Ac974 SAE - AS1241 Skydrol Viscosity [ edit ] Source: [ 20 ] Commonly used hydraulic oil viscosities fall under the ISO VG (Viscosity Grade) classification system, which is based on the oil's kinematic viscosity at 40 °C (104 °F). The most prevalent grades for general industrial and mobile hydraulic systems are typically: ISO VG 32 ISO VG 46 ISO VG 68 Additional viscosities such as the following, are also used, but less frequently or for specific low/high-temperature applications. ISO VG 15 ISO VG 22 ISO VG 100 See also [ edit ] Dexron Hydraulic brake Hydraulic fuse Hydraulics International, INC. Hydropneumatic suspension - automobile application Oleo strut - aircraft application Osmosis Skydrol References [ edit ] ^ Givens W. and Michael P., Fuels and Lubricants Handbook , G. Totten ed., ASTM International, 2003, p. 373 ISBN 0-8031-2096-6 ^ Placek, D., Synthetics, Mineral Oils and Bio-based Lubricants, L. ed., CRC Press, 2006, p. 519 ISBN 1-57444-723-8 ^ Schmitt, Vernon R. (1 January 2002). Controlled Bombs and Guided Missiles of the World War II and Cold War Eras: An Inside Story of Research and Development Programs . Society of Automotive Engineers. ISBN 9780768009132 . Retrieved 3 May 2017 – via Google Books. ^ What Does AW Stand For? - Petroleum Service Company ^ Labor, Carl (21 July 2022). "Is Hydraulic Fluid Flammable?" . Safetyfirst . Retrieved 30 October 2022 . ^ Peter, Skoog. "The Changing Economics of Fire-resistant Hydraulic Fluids" (PDF) . Quaker Chemical Corporation . Retrieved 12 December 2014 . ^ "DOT Brake Fluid vs. Mineral Oil - and the Winner is." EpicBleedSolutions.com . Retrieved 3 May 2017 . ^ a b "Power Steering Fluid" . www.AA1car.com . Retrieved 3 May 2017 . ^ "Basic Composition of ATF" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2016-03-03 . Retrieved 2015-05-27 . ^ Discovery channel-'seconds from disaster' ^ Parker, James W. (1962-01-01). "A summary of contamination in hydraulic fluid systems of USAF and support systems" . Defense Technical Information Center . Archived from the original on Jun 20, 2023. ^ "Hydraulic Contamination and Fluid Cleanliness in Power Units" . FlyTek GSE . 2017-04-24 . Retrieved 2023-06-20 . ^ "Oil You Need To Know About Hydraulic Oils - Crown Oil" . www.crownoil.co.uk . ^ "Machine-tool Lubrication" . www.lathes.co.uk . ^ a b c Bosch Rexroth AG (2023). "Hydraulic fluids based on mineral oil and related hydrocarbons" (PDF) . www.etshydro.com . Retrieved 2023-10-19 . ^ Wodoil GmbH (2023-08-03). "Hydrauliköl für Ihren Holzspalter: Ein umfassender Leitfaden" . Wodoil GmbH (in German) . Retrieved 2023-10-19 . ^ a b "Archived copy" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2016-03-04 . Retrieved 2017-02-25 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: archived copy as title ( link ) ^ "MIL-PRF-6083" . QCLubricants.com . Retrieved 3 May 2017 . ^ Wodoil Gmbh (2023-08-16). "Alles was Sie über STOU und UTTO Öle wissen müssen" . Wodoil GmbH (in German) . Retrieved 2023-10-19 . ^ CarArco (2025-01-29). "Hydrauliköle: Was bedeuten die Normen?" . Wodoil (in German) . Retrieved 2025-01-29 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hydraulic fluid . Information and purchase of military specification (mil-spec) hydraulic fluid Information about Fluid Power is also available on the National Fluid Power Association web-site nfpa.com v t e Hydraulics Concepts Hydraulics Hydraulic fluid Fluid power Hydraulic engineering Modeling Bernoulli's principle Darcy–Weisbach equation Groundwater flow equation Hazen–Williams equation Hydrological optimization Open-channel flow ( Manning formula ) Pipe network analysis Technologies Machinery Accumulator Brake Circuit Cylinder Drive system Manifold Motor Power network Press Pump Ram Rescue tools Seal Public networks Liverpool London Manchester Aircraft-related templates v t e Aircraft components and systems Airframe structure Aft pressure bulkhead Cabane strut Canopy Crack arrestor Cruciform tail Dope Empennage Fabric covering Fairing Flying wires Former Fuselage Hardpoint Interplane strut Jury strut Leading edge Lift strut Longeron Nacelle Rib Spar Stabilizer Stressed skin Strut T-tail Tailplane Trailing edge Triple tail Twin tail V-tail Vertical stabilizer Wing root Wing tip Wingbox Flight controls Aileron Airbrake Artificial feel Autopilot Canard Centre stick Deceleron Dive brake Dual control Electro-hydraulic actuator Elevator Elevon Flaperon Flight control modes Fly-by-wire Gust lock HOTAS Rudder Rudder pedals Servo tab Side-stick Spoiler Spoileron Stabilator Stick pusher Stick shaker Trim tab Wing warping Yaw damper Yoke Aerodynamic and high-lift devices Active Aeroelastic Wing Adaptive compliant wing Anti-shock body Blown flap Channel wing Dog-tooth Drag-reducing aerospike Flap Gouge flap Gurney flap Krueger flap Leading-edge cuff Leading-edge droop flap LEX Slats Slot Stall strips Strake Variable-sweep wing Vortex generator Vortilon Wing fence Winglet Avionic and flight instrument systems ACAS Air data boom Air data computer Aircraft periscope Airspeed indicator Altimeter Annunciator panel Astrodome Attitude indicator Compass Course deviation indicator EFIS EICAS Flight management system Glass cockpit GPS Head-up display Heading indicator Horizontal situation indicator INS ISIS Multi-function display Pitot–static system Radar altimeter TCAS Transponder Turn and slip indicator Variometer Yaw string Propulsion controls, devices and fuel systems Autothrottle Drop tank FADEC Fuel tank Gascolator Inlet cone Intake ramp NACA cowling NACA duct Self-sealing fuel tank Splitter plate Throttle Thrust lever Thrust reversal Townend ring War emergency power Wet wing Landing and arresting gear Aircraft tire Arrestor hook Autobrake Conventional landing gear Drogue parachute Landing gear Landing gear extender Oleo strut Tricycle landing gear Tundra tire Escape systems Ejection seat Escape crew capsule Other systems Aircraft lavatory Auxiliary power unit Bleed air system Deicing boot Emergency oxygen system Environmental control system Flight recorder Hydraulic system Ice protection system In-flight entertainment system Landing lights Navigation light Passenger service unit Ram air turbine v t e Aircraft piston engine components, systems and terminology Piston engines Mechanical components Camshaft Connecting rod Crankpin Crankshaft Cylinder Cylinder head Gudgeon pin Hydraulic tappet Main bearing Obturator ring Oil pump Piston Piston ring Poppet valve Pushrod Rocker arm Sleeve valve Tappet Electrical components Alternator Capacitor discharge ignition Dual ignition Electronic fuel injection Generator Ignition system Magneto Spark plug Starter Terminology Air-cooled Aircraft engine starting Bore Compression ratio Dead centre Engine displacement Four-stroke engine Horsepower Ignition timing Manifold pressure Mean effective pressure Naturally aspirated Monosoupape Overhead camshaft Overhead valve engine Rotary engine Shock cooling Stroke Time between overhauls Two-stroke engine Valve timing Volumetric efficiency Propellers Components Propeller governor Propeller speed reduction unit Spinner Terminology Autofeather Blade pitch Constant-speed Contra-rotating Counter-rotating Scimitar Single-blade Variable-pitch Engine instruments Annunciator panel EFIS EICAS Flight data recorder Glass cockpit Hobbs meter Tachometer Engine controls Carburetor heat Throttle Fuel and induction system Avgas Carburetor Fuel injection Gascolator Inlet manifold Intercooler Pressure carburetor Supercharger Turbocharger Updraft carburetor Other systems Auxiliary power unit Coffman starter Hydraulic system Ice protection system Recoil start v t e Jet engines and aircraft gas turbines Gas turbines and jet propulsion Types Air turborocket Pulsejet / Valveless pulsejet / Gluhareff Pressure Jet Pulse detonation engine Propfan Turbofan Turbojet Turboprop Turboshaft Ramjet Scramjet Shcramjet Rocket Rotating detonation engine Mechanical components Accessory drive Air intake Afterburner (reheat) Axial compressor Centrifugal compressor Combustor Constant speed drive Impeller Nose bullet Propelling nozzle Turbine blade Principles Aircraft engine starting Bleed air Brayton cycle Bypass ratio Compressor stall Engine pressure ratio (EPR) Flameout Jet engine performance Overall pressure ratio Propulsive efficiency Specific impulse Thrust Thrust lapse Thrust specific fuel consumption Thrust to weight ratio Variable cycle engine Windmill restart Propellers Components Propeller governor Propeller speed reduction unit Principles Autofeather Blade pitch Constant-speed Contra-rotating Counter-rotating Proprotor Scimitar Variable-pitch Engine instruments Annunciator panel Electronic centralised aircraft monitor (ECAM) Electronic flight instrument system (EFIS) Engine-indicating and crew-alerting system (EICAS) Flight data recorder Glass cockpit Engine controls Autothrottle Full Authority Digital Engine/Electronics (FADEC) Thrust lever Thrust reversal Fuel and induction systems Flame holder Jet fuel Other systems Air-start system Auxiliary power unit (APU) Bleed air system Hydraulic system Ice protection system Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hydraulic_fluid&oldid=1300124533 " Categories : Fluid dynamics Gear oils Hydraulics Hydraulic fluids Hidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 maint: archived copy as title Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2024 Commons category link from Wikidata