https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_spin-off

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Action where a company splits off part as a separate entity "SpinCo" redirects here. For the proposed NBCUniversal spin-off originally referred to as SpinCo, see Versant . For other uses, see Spin-off . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Corporate spin-off" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( November 2017 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A corporate spin-off , also known as a spin-out , [ 1 ] starburst or hive-off , [ 2 ] is a type of corporate action where a company "splits off" a section as a separate business or creates a second incarnation, even if the first is still active. [ 3 ] It is distinct from a sell-off, where a company sells a section to another company or firm in exchange for cash or securities. Characteristics [ edit ] Spin-offs are divisions of companies or organizations that then become independent businesses with assets, employees, intellectual property , technology , or existing products that are taken from the parent company . Shareholders of the parent company receive equivalent shares in the new company to compensate for the loss of equity in the original stocks . However, shareholders may then buy and sell stocks from either company independently; this potentially makes investment in the companies more attractive, as potential share purchasers can invest narrowly in the portion of the business they think will have the most growth. [ 4 ] In contrast, divestment can also sever one business from another, but the assets are sold off rather than retained under a renamed corporate entity. Many times, the management team of the new company is from the same parent organization. Often, a spin-off offers the opportunity for a division to be backed by the company but not be affected by the parent company's image or history, giving potential to take existing ideas that had been languishing in an old environment and help them grow in a new environment. Spin-offs also allow high-growth divisions, once separated from other low-growth divisions, to command higher valuation multiples. [ 5 ] In most cases, the parent company or organization offers support in one or more of the following: Investing equity in the new firm Being the first customer of the spin-off that helps create cash flow Providing incubation space (desk, chairs, phones, Internet access, etc.) Providing legal, finance, or technology services All the support from the parent company is provided with the explicit purpose of helping the spin-off grow. One of the most critical antecedents of corporate spin off or corporate entrepreneurship rests upon its CEO's ability to articulate a compelling vision can strengthen emotional bonds within the top management team, helping to foster corporate spin off or corporate entrepreneurship. [ 6 ] U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission [ edit ] The United States Securities and Exchange Commission 's (SEC) definition of "spin-off" is more precise. Spin-offs occur when the equity owners of the parent company receive equity stakes in the newly spun-off company. [ 7 ] For example, when Agilent Technologies was spun off from Hewlett-Packard (HP) in 1999, the stockholders of HP received Agilent stock. A company not considered a spin-off in the SEC's definition (but considered by the SEC as a technology transfer or licensing of technology to the new company) may also be called a spin-off in common usage. Other definitions [ edit ] A second definition of a spin-out is a firm formed when an employee or group of employees leaves an existing entity to establish an independent start-up. The prior employer can be a firm, a university, or another organization. [ 8 ] Spin-outs typically operate at arm's length from the previous organizations and have independent sources of financing, products, services, customers, and other assets. In some cases, the spin-out may license technology from the parent or supply the parent with products or services; conversely, they may become competitors. Such spin-outs are important sources of technological diffusion in high-tech industries. Terms such as hive-up, hive down, or hive across are sometimes used for transferring a business to a parent company, a subsidiary company, or a fellow subsidiary. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Reasons for spin-offs [ edit ] One of the main reasons for what The Economist has dubbed the 2011 "starburst revival" is that "companies seeking buyers for parts of their business are not getting good offers from other firms, or from private equity". [ 3 ] For example, Foster's Group , an Australian beverage company, was prepared to sell its wine business. However, due to the lack of a decent offer, it decided to spin off the wine business, which is now called Treasury Wine Estates . [ 12 ] Conglomerate discount [ edit ] According to The Economist , another driving force of the proliferation of spin-offs is what it calls the " conglomerate discount " — that "stockmarkets value a diversified group at less than the sum of its parts". [ 3 ] Examples [ edit ] Some examples of spin-offs (according to the SEC definition): Guidant was spun off from Eli Lilly and Company in 1994, formed from Lilly's Medical Devices and Diagnostics Division. Agilent Technologies spun off from Hewlett-Packard (HP) in 1999, formed from HP's former test-and-measurement equipment division. Later in 2014, Keysight was spun off from Agilent Technologies. Expedia Group was spun off from Microsoft in 1999, with its eponymous subsidiary Expedia . DreamWorks Animation was spun off from DreamWorks Pictures in 2004. In turn, DreamWorks Animation was acquired by Comcast subsidary NBCUniversal in 2016. Covidien was spun off from Tyco International in 2007. TE Connectivity was spun off from Tyco International in 2007. Cenovus Energy was spun off from Encana (now Ovintiv ) in 2009. AOL was a Time Warner spin-off in 2009; this effectively was a demerger , as AOL had previously merged into Time Warner. Ram Trucks was spun off from Dodge in 2010. Ocean Rig was spun off from DryShips in September 2011. News Corporation 's publishing operations (and its broadcasting operations in Australia) were spun off as News Corp in 2013. The previous News Corporation's remaining media properties were retained under the name 21st Century Fox . In turn, 21st Century Fox was acquired by The Walt Disney Company in 2019, but its broadcast, news, and national sports assets were spun off to the new Fox Corporation while Disney retained the film, television, and cable production units. After being acquired by Sega , Index Corporation 's video game operations were re-branded as Atlus , the name of a predecessor company, while its contents and solution businesses were spun off as a new company using the Index Corporation name in 2013. Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals was spun off from Covidien in 2013. Viacom was spun off from CBS in 1971, but was later re-merged in 2019 as ViacomCBS, now Paramount Global , which later merged with Skydance Media in 2025 to form Paramount Skydance . Fortive , Envista and Veralto were spun off from Danaher in 2016, 2019 and 2023 respectively. In South Korea , the then- CJ E&M (now CJ ENM Entertainment Division) spun off its drama production and distribution division into a new subsidiary company called Studio Dragon in May 2016. Starz was spun off from Lionsgate Studios in 2025. Versant was spun off from NBCUniversal in 2025. Examples following the second definition of spin-out: Fairchild Semiconductor was a spin-out of Shockley Transistor; the founders were Shockley's " traitorous eight " Intel was, in turn, a spin-out of Fairchild, as were many firms in the semiconductor industry Academia [ edit ] An example of companies created by technology transfer or licensing: Since 1997, Oxford University Innovation has helped create more than 70 spin-out companies, [ 13 ] and now, on average, every two months a new company is spun out of "academic research generated within and owned by the University of Oxford". Over £266 million in external investment has been raised by spin-out companies since 2000, and five are currently listed on the London Stock Exchange 's Alternative Investment Market . [ 14 ] See also [ edit ] Demerger Divestment Equity carve-out Stub (stock) Successor company References [ edit ] ^ New Zealand Master Tax Guide (2013 edition) – p. 771 1775470024 CCH New Zealand Ltd – 2013 "Essentially, a 'spinout' involves the transfer by a parent company of shares in a wholly owned subsidiary to the shareholders in the parent. To the extent that there is a common interest in the old and new holding companies, the spinout ..." ^ "Definition of hive off" . The Free Dictionary . Archived from the original on 9 April 2021 . Retrieved 10 April 2021 . ^ a b c "Starbursting" . The Economist . March 24, 2011. Archived from the original on Aug 7, 2020 . Retrieved April 18, 2011 . ^ Zahra, Shaker A. (1 December 1996). "Governance, Ownership, and Corporate Entrepreneurship: The Moderating Impact of Industry Technological Opportunities". Academy of Management Journal . 39 (6): 1713– 1735. JSTOR 257076 . ^ Wisler, Philip (May 2014). "Spin-off Transactions: A Disaggregation Strategy Promises Rewards" . Transaction Advisors . Archived from the original on Mar 29, 2016 . Retrieved January 17, 2015 . ^ Adomako, Samuel; Zahoor, Nadia; Tang, Shi; Chu, Irene; Zhang, Stephen X. (2025-05-01). "CEO vision articulation, TMT relational attachment, and corporate entrepreneurship" . The Leadership Quarterly . 36 (3) 101881. doi : 10.1016/j.leaqua.2025.101881 . ISSN 1048-9843 . ^ "Division Of Corporation Finance Securities And Exchange Commission Staff Legal Bulletin No. 4 (CF)" . US SEC. 16 September 1997. Archived from the original on 8 March 2022 . Retrieved 8 March 2022 . ^ Richards, Graham (2008). Spin-Outs: Creating Businesses from University Intellectual Property . Petersfield, Hampshire: Harriman House. ISBN 978-1-905641-98-7 . Retrieved November 14, 2017 . ^ "Hive up under FRS 102" . ICAEW . 1 Dec 2015. Archived from the original on Nov 29, 2022. ^ "Burges Salmon Guide to group reorganisations and corporate simplifications" (PDF) . Burges Salmon . Archived (PDF) from the original on Oct 22, 2022. ^ Bicknell, Steve (16 March 2012). "Practical Uses for Hive Up and Hive Down" . Steve J Bicknell . Archived from the original on Oct 2, 2022. ^ Nicholson, Chris V. (February 15, 2011). "Foster's to Separate Wine and Beer Businesses in May" . DealBook . The New York Times . Retrieved November 14, 2017 . ^ "About Isis" . Oxford University Innovation . University of Oxford . Archived from the original on November 15, 2013 . Retrieved November 14, 2017 . ^ "Spin-out Companies" . Oxford University Innovation . University of Oxford . Archived from the original on Jul 7, 2014 . Retrieved June 9, 2014 . Further reading [ edit ] EIRMA (2003) "Innovation Through Spinning In and Out", Research Technology Management , Vol. 46, 63–64. René Rohrbeck; Mario Döhler; Heinrich Arnold (20 April 2009). "Creating growth with externalization of R&D results—the spin‐along approach". Global Business and Organizational Excellence . 28 (4): 44– 51. doi : 10.1002/JOE.20267 . ISSN 1932-2054 . Wikidata Q104832450 . Rohrbeck, R., Hölzle K. and H. G. Gemünden (2009): "Opening up for competitive advantage: How Deutsche Telekom creates an open innovation ecosystem" , R&D Management , Vol. 39, S. 420–430. External links [ edit ] v t e Corporate finance and investment banking Capital structure Convertible debt Exchangeable debt Mezzanine debt Pari passu Preferred equity Second lien debt Senior debt Senior secured debt Shareholder loan Share capital Subordinated debt Warrant Transactions (terms/conditions) Equity offerings At-the-market offering Book building Bookrunner Bought deal Bought out deal Corporate spin-off Direct public offering Equity carve-out Follow-on offering Greenshoe Reverse Initial public offering Pre-IPO Private placement Public offering Rights issue Seasoned equity offering Secondary market offering Underwriting Mergers and acquisitions Buy side Contingent value rights Control premium Demerger Divestment Drag-along right Management due diligence Managerial entrenchment Mandatory offer Minority discount Pitch book Pre-emption right Proxy fight Post-merger integration Sell side Shareholder rights plan Special-purpose entity Special situation Squeeze-out Staggered board of directors Stock swap Supermajority amendment Synergy Tag-along right Takeover Reverse Tender offer Leverage Debt restructuring Debtor-in-possession financing Dividend recapitalization Financial sponsor Leveraged buyout Leveraged recapitalization High-yield debt Private equity Project finance Valuation Accretion/dilution analysis Adjusted present value Associate company Business valuation Conglomerate discount Cost of capital Weighted average Discounted cash flow Economic value added Enterprise value Fairness opinion Financial modeling Free cash flow Free cash flow to equity Market value added Minority interest Mismarking Modigliani–Miller theorem Net present value Pure play Real options Residual income Stock valuation Sum-of-the-parts analysis Tax shield Terminal value Valuation using multiples List of investment banks Outline of finance Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Corporate_spin-off&oldid=1326590343 " Categories : Corporate spin-offs Corporate finance Restructuring Types of business entity Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from November 2017 All articles needing additional references