https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Authority_control

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikipedia help page about authority control For editor information, see Wikipedia:Authority control . Wikipedia information page This is an information page . It is neither an encyclopedia article nor one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines ; rather, its purpose is to explain certain aspects of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect differing levels of consensus and vetting . Shortcut H:AC H:AC Readers' FAQ About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Assessing article quality Authority control Categories Censorship Copyright Disambiguation Images and multimedia ISBN Microformats Mobile access Offline access Navigation Other languages Page names Portals Searching Student help Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Readers' glossary Readers' index Reader's guide to Wikipedia v t e Authority control is a method used in databases and library catalogs that assigns a unique identifier to a given subject. Many Wikipedia articles contain links to authority control databases at the bottom of the page, connecting the article subject to bibliographical records, music databases, and other information repositories. Databases use authority control to distinguish between subjects that share the same name, and to assign a single identifier to a subject that has multiple names. Some common authority control databases include: International Standard Name Identifier (ISNI); Virtual International Authority File (VIAF); Library of Congress Control Number (LCCN); and Integrated Authority File (GND), Gemeinsame Normdatei in German. WorldCat is a global cooperative union catalog which itemizes the collections of 72,000 libraries in 170 countries and territories. See {{ Authority control }} for a full list of supported databases on Wikipedia. See also Authority control Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Authority_control&oldid=1329573165 " Categories : Wikipedia information pages Reader help Wikipedia authority control Hidden category: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages