https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trafficators

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Semaphore turn signal Trafficator in the "on" position Trafficator in the "on" position Trafficators are semaphore signals which, when operated, protrude from the bodywork of a motor vehicle to indicate its intention to turn in the direction indicated by the pointing signal. Trafficators are often located at the door pillar . History [ edit ] Austin A30 with trafficator deployed They first appeared in the 1900s, when they were actuated either mechanically or pneumatically. In 1908, Alfredo Barrachini in Rome added electric lights inside the arms that turned on as they extended, but operation was still by a cable system. [ 1 ] Electric operation came in 1918 when the Naillik Motor Signal Company of Boston added electric motor drive. This system was superseded by two French inventors, Gustave Deneef and Maurice Boisson, who used a linear solenoid in 1923. The final complete system came in 1927 when Berlin -based Max Ruhl and Ernst Neuman combined internal illumination and solenoid operation: (but see Gladstone Adams ). The shape of the trafficator arm is closely based upon the shape of the semaphore signal arm used by the Royal Bavarian State Railways beginning in 1890. The shape differs in that the trafficator has only the lower 'blade' of the rail signal's terminal 'arrowhead', so that the retracted trafficator sits flush with the vehicle's exterior. They were common on vehicles until the introduction of the flashing amber, red or white indicators at or near the corners of the vehicle (and often along the sides as well), now referred to as "turn-signals". They have been increasingly rare since the 1950s, as ever-stricter legislation has prescribed the need for the modern type of flashing signal. Many historic vehicles (e.g. pre-1960 Volkswagen Beetle ) that are used on today's roads have had their trafficators supplemented or replaced with modern indicators to aid visibility and to meet legislative requirements. In some countries trafficators may now be retro-fitted with flashing lights. References [ edit ] Look up trafficator in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. ^ Motavalli, Jim (3 October 2019). "The Strange but True History of the Turn Signal" . Car Talk . Retrieved 2025-07-17 . The Motor Car: Its Evolution and Engineering Development . John Day. Bosch Ltd., 1975. ISBN 0-00-435016-2 . [ page needed ] v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Trafficators&oldid=1301091199 " Categories : Auto parts German inventions Semaphore Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from July 2025