https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crash_test

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Form of destructive testing A crash test of the Honda Ridgeline by the NHTSA Frontal small-overlap crash test of a 2012 Honda Odyssey 2018 Dodge Grand Caravan being struck by a mobile deformable barrier at 62 km/h 2016 Honda Fit striking a wall head-on at 56 km/h Driver-side oblique crash test of a 2017 Honda Ridgeline Jeep Liberty undergoing routine impact testing at Chrysler's Proving Grounds NHTSA research crash test involving two Ford Five Hundreds Full-scale crash test of various airbag technologies on an AH-1G (Mod) helicopter A crash test is a form of destructive testing usually performed in order to ensure safe design standards in crashworthiness and crash compatibility for various modes of transportation (see automobile safety ) or related systems and components. Types [ edit ] Frontal-impact tests : which is what most people initially think of when asked about a crash test. Vehicles usually impact a solid concrete wall at a specified speed, but these can also be vehicle impacting vehicle tests. SUVs have been singled out in these tests for a while, due to the high ride-height that they often have. Moderate Overlap tests : in which only part of the front of the car impacts with a barrier (vehicle). These are important, as impact forces (approximately) remain the same as with a frontal impact test, but a smaller fraction of the car is required to absorb all of the force. These tests are often realized by cars turning into oncoming traffic. This type of testing is done by the U.S.A. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), Euro NCAP , Australasian New Car Assessment Program (ANCAP) and ASEAN NCAP . Small Overlap tests : this is where only a small portion of the car's structure strikes an object such as a pole or a tree, or if a car were to clip another car. This is the most demanding test because it loads the most force onto the structure of the car at any given speed. These are usually conducted at 15–20% of the front vehicle structure. Side-impact tests : these forms of accidents have a very significant likelihood of fatality, as cars do not have a significant crumple zone to absorb the impact forces before an occupant is injured. Pole-impact tests : A difficult test which places a large amount of force on a small proportion on the side of the vehicle. Roll-over tests : which tests a car's ability (specifically the pillars holding the roof) to support itself in a dynamic impact. More recently, dynamic rollover tests have been proposed in lieu of static crush testing (video). [ 1 ] Roadside hardware crash tests : are used to ensure crash barriers and crash cushions will protect vehicle occupants from roadside hazards, and also to ensure that guard rails, sign posts, light poles and similar appurtenances do not pose an undue hazard to vehicle occupants. Old versus new : Often an old and big car against a small and new car, [ 2 ] [ 3 ] or two different generations of the same car model. These tests are performed to show the advancements in crash-worthiness. [ citation needed ] Computer model : Because of the cost of full-scale crash tests, engineers often run many simulated crash tests using computer models to refine their vehicle or barrier designs before conducting live tests. [ 4 ] Sled testing : A cost-effective way of testing components such as airbags and seat belts is conducting sled crash testing. The two most common types of sled systems are reverse-firing sleds which are fired from a standstill, and decelerating sleds which are accelerated from a starting point and stopped in the crash area with a hydraulic ram. It can also be used to evaluate the whiplash protection of a vehicle's seat . A reverse-firing sled with a buck representing a conventional sedan prior to a run Frontal moderate overlap crash test of a 2016 Toyota Tundra Driver-side small overlap crash test of a 2017 Toyota Tacoma Passenger-side small overlap crash test of a 2018 Kia Soul Side impact crash test of a 2016 Honda Fit Side impact crash test of a 2018 Honda Odyssey Rollover crash test of a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt SS Side-impact crash test of a 2002 Dodge Ram 1500 striking a 2004 Honda Accord mid-size sedan Side pole impact crash test of a 2017 Lexus IS Front full-width crash test of a 2006 Honda Ridgeline Frontal full-width crash test of a 2017 Cadillac ATS-V Side impact crash test of a 2014 Scion FR-S Rear offset impact of a 2015 Ford F-150 Passenger-side oblique crash test of a 2015 Chevrolet Malibu Major providers [ edit ] Fiat 500 del 2007 in  Euro NCAP  crash test (Torino museum) Name Abbreviation Founded Location United States New Car Assessment Program US NCAP (U.S. NCAP) 1978 Washington, DC , United States Insurance Institute for Highway Safety IIHS 1959, first crash test 1969, ratings from 1995 Arlington, VA , United States Australasian New Car Assessment Program ANCAP 1993 Canberra, Australia Japan New Car Assessment Programme JNCAP 1995 Tokyo, Japan European New Car Assessment Programme Euro NCAP 1996 Leuven , Belgium Korean New Car Assessment Program KNCAP 1999 Hwaseong-si , South Korea China – New Car Assessment Programme C-NCAP 2006 Tianjin, China Latin New Car Assessment Programme Latin NCAP 2010 Montevideo, Uruguay New Car Assessment Program for Southeast Asia ASEAN NCAP 2011 Kajang , Selangor, Malaysia Global New Car Assessment Programme Global NCAP 2011 London, UK Taiwan New Car Assessment Program TNCAP 2018, ratings from 2023 Changhua , Taiwan Green NCAP (operated by Euro NCAP for emissions) Green NCAP 2019 Leuven , Belgium Bharat New Car Assessment Program Bharat NCAP 2023 Pune, India Auto Review Car Assessment Program (ARCAP) Allgemeiner Deutscher Automobil-Club (ADAC) in Germany National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in the United States, specifically the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) and New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) Data collection [ edit ] Crash test graphics Crash test dummy left paraplegic after a severe oblique crash test inside a 1997 Geo Metro Crash tests are conducted under rigorous scientific and safety standards . Each crash test is very expensive so the maximum amount of data must be extracted from each test. Usually, this requires the use of high-speed data-acquisition, at least one triaxial accelerometer and a crash test dummy , but often includes more. Some organizations that conduct crash tests include Calspan , an independent test laboratory in Buffalo, NY. As a result of the capabilities and expertise at Calspan, Calspan has been awarded 5 year contracts by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to execute for the NHTSA FMVSS No. 214, Side Impact Protection Compliance Testing, FMVSS No. 301 Fuel System Integrity, and FMVSS No. 305 Electric Powered Vehicles: Electrolyte Spillage and Electrical Shock Protection vehicle crash tests. Calspan also holds the NHTSA contracts for executing New Car Assessment Program crash tests. Also, the Monash University department of civil engineering routinely conducts crash tests for the purposes of roadside barrier safety and design. Consumer response [ edit ] In 1998 the Rover 100 received a one-star Adult Occupant Rating in EuroNCAP crash tests; sales promptly collapsed and the 18-year-old design was quickly scrapped. In 2005 the Daewoo Kalos made news in Europe and Australia by scoring only two stars in its crash test, resulting in lower sales and demonstrating the influence of vehicle crashworthiness on a model's success in the marketplace . The result for Holden in Australia, who retailed the Kalos under the Holden Barina name, resulted in a considerable amount of negative publicity , with the managing director of Holden forced to publicly defend the vehicle. [ 5 ] The second generation Isuzu Trooper (1995–1997) models were rated "Not Acceptable" by Consumer Reports for their tendency to roll over during testing. After the report Trooper sales never recovered and two years later production ceased. Crash testing programs [ edit ] There are a number of crash test programs around the world dedicated to providing consumers with a source of comparitative information in relation to the safety performance of new and used vehicles. Examples of new car crash test programs include National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 's NCAP, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety , Australasian New Car Assessment Program , EuroNCAP and JapNCAP . Programs such as the Used Car Safety Ratings provide consumers information on the safety performance of vehicles based on real world crash data. In 2020, EuroNCAP introduces a mobile progressive deformable barrier (MPDB) test first experimented on the Toyota Yaris. [ 6 ] See also [ edit ] Air safety Automobile safety Automobile safety rating Car accident Crash test dummy Crashworthiness European New Car Assessment Programme ( Euro NCAP ) Head injury criterion Insurance Institute for Highway Safety Moose test Out of position (crash testing) NASA Impact Dynamics Research Facility References [ edit ] ^ "Newly Developed Roof Crush Test Proves Existence of Safer Vehicles that can Withstand Rollover Crashes" . The Center for Auto Safety. Archived from the original on 2007-09-27 . Retrieved 2007-06-07 . ^ "Ford Fiesta Vs Ford Sierra" . ADAC. Archived from the original on April 19, 2008. ^ Renault Modus Vs Volvo 940 . Archived from the original on February 16, 2014. ^ Alba, Michael (2024-08-27). "Altair and Oasys team up for safety modeling, and more simulation news" . Engineering.com . Retrieved 2025-05-05 . ^ Fallah, Alborz (14 June 2006). "Holden Barina 2006 Poor Safety Slows Sales" . CarAdvice. ^ "Euro NCAP | 500 - Server Error" . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Crash tests . Automotive Safety and Bharat NCAP How Crash Testing Works at HowStuffWorks Insurance Institute of Highway Safety EuroNCAP Motorward: All you need to know about crash tests v t e Product testing Testing organizations Standards organization Consumer organization Trade organization Food safety organization Methodologies Conformance testing Chemical test Destructive testing Discrimination testing Nondestructive testing Physical test Sensory analysis Survey research Test method Usability testing Product fields Cannabis testing Coffee cupping Crash test Clinical trial Package testing Pill testing Reagent testing Software testing Whisky tasting Wine tasting Scales Hedonic Just-About-Right (JAR) Likert Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Crash_test&oldid=1306602985 " Categories : Mechanical tests Transport safety Product testing Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2009 Commons category link is on Wikidata