https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69850657/will-trump-throw-out-usmca

GM Canada The Trump Administration is undecided. It might renegotiate the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA, which replaced NAFTA in 2020), or it might decide to forge separate deals with the two countries. “We could renegotiate it, and that would be good, or we could do different deals,” President Trump said last October during a meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney. A mandatory review of USMCA is due next summer. Related Story No Surprise: Q4 Auto Sales Fell, EVs Fell Further Separate deals would allow tailored per-sector deals on everything from autos to agriculture, responding to Canadian barriers to US farm products or Chinese goods (including automobiles) potentially entering the US via Mexico. These kinds of negotiations are a favorite Trump tactic, as outlined in The Art of the Deal . What are the implications of this for cars made or part-assembled in Mexico or Canada? Although the tariffs are being imposed presumably to help the domestic auto industry, which has been struggling, the results aren’t always positive from the automakers’ viewpoint. Separate deals could mean more complexity and uncertainty for OEMs in negotiating with suppliers, higher parts and raw material costs, and overall disruption to the supply chain. via Wikipedia Ford’s Oakville Assembly plant in Ontario is likely to be affected by a new trade deal. General Motors and Ford both have deep ties to Mexican manufacturers, for instance. And American automaker plants in Canada, all in Ontario, include Ford’s Oakville Assembly Complex, General Motors’ plants in Oshawa and Ingersoll, and Stellantis Windsor Assembly. Stellantis is not strictly an American company, but it owns the Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge, and Ram brands. According to Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds’ head of insights, “A move to replace the USMCA with separate agreements for Mexico and Canada would introduce new and cumbersome challenges for the auto industry. Automakers have built their supply chains around a highly integrated North American system, with parts moving back and forth across borders. If that framework starts to change—whether through new tariffs or different rules—costs rise, production becomes more complex, and consumers might start to feel it in higher vehicle prices. After the past five years, stability is something the auto industry needs more of, and this kind of shift adds to the uncertainty.” Stellantis Stellantis’ Windsor plant in Canada. Alexander Edwards, president of Strategic Vision, agrees. “The auto industry can adapt to almost any rule,” he said. “What it can’t absorb cheaply is uncertainty and multiple overlapping rulebooks.” American automakers are also supportive of USMCA, though they choose their words carefully. American Automotive Policy Council (AAPC) President Matt Blunt said in Congressional testimony December 4 , “The agreement’s strong rules of origin have driven major increases in US automotive investment, production, and employment, contributing significantly to US economic security. As the Joint Review moves forward, AAPC urges the administration to preserve the core structure of the USMCA while pursuing targeted refinements, adequate transition periods, and measures that further incentivize North American supply chain resilience.” “The auto industry can adapt to almost any rule. What it can’t absorb cheaply is uncertainty and multiple overlapping rulebooks.” Nevertheless, automakers are nervous. AAPC said back in April , following some Trump comments from the Oval Office on temporarily exempting automakers from the 25% auto tariffs, “There is increasing awareness that broad tariffs on parts could undermine our shared goal of building a thriving and growing American auto industry, and that many of these supply chain transitions will take time.” And speaking to Autoweek December 22, AAPC President Matt Blunt said, “We understand the need for bilateral negotiations on some issues, but prefer to retain the trilateral agreement.” Nevertheless, speaking to a Senate panel earlier this month, US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer, a major tariff supporter, said that his office “will keep the President’s options open, negotiating firmly to resolve the issues identified, but only recommending renewal if resolution can be achieved.” He added, “Whatever the USMCA’s value to the United States and even North America, the shortcomings are such that a rubber stamp of the agreement is not in the national interest.” GM Authority An aerial view of GM’s sprawling operations at Oshawa in Ontario, Canada. The BBC believes the main sticking points to a deal with Canada don’t have much to do with automobiles. Trump wants a greater opening of the Canadian dairy market to American farmers, provinces to lift their ban on selling American-made liquor, and revisions to the Trudeau-era Online Streaming Act, enacted in 2023, which Greer told Congress “discriminates against US tech and media firms.” Trump himself has brought up the dairy issue repeatedly, and the liquor ban was revenge on the provincial level for the Trump-imposed 35% tariffs on Canada. This kind of thing, obviously, is part of the argument against trade tariffs to begin with—that they lead to these  tit-for-tat exchanges. Last February, citing an “extraordinary threat posed by illegal aliens and drugs,” the then-new Trump administration added a 25% tariff on imports from Canada and Mexico. A couple days after the tariffs went into effect in March, Trump announced that all USMCA-compliant products would be temporarily exempt. USMCA requires 75% (up from 62.5% under NAFTA) of an auto’s content to be made in North America. Related Story Looking for a New-Car Bargain? Start Here As of late 2025, the US imposes tariffs on many Canadian goods, including 35% duty on most non-energy/critical minerals, 10% on energy and potash, and a stiff 35% to 50% on steel and aluminum. Cars made in Canada and imported into the US don’t pay tariffs if they are USMCA-compliant on content, but a 25% levy applies to cars that are out of compliance. Canada’s retaliatory tariff is also 25%. The tariffs on Mexican-made cars are similar, but maybe wouldn’t be if Canada and Mexico have their trade deals split up. It’s worth noting that Mexico, with its own economy to protect, recently imposed tariffs of up to 50% on imports from China and other Asian countries, including cars. The aim is to reduce Mexico’s dependence on imports. It will have the likely effect of increasing the MSRP of Chinese cars imported into Mexico. But Chinese brand cars built in Mexico with Mexican labor (such as at a new BYD plant, now paused) could qualify for exemptions. The average US tariff on Chinese goods now stands at 57.6%, which is double what it was at the beginning of 2025. And Canada has its own whopping tariffs (more than 106%) on Chinese EVs, in place since 2024. The tariff wars are far from over, and a routine re-authorization for the USMCA is far from a done deal. From: Autoweek Jim Motavalli Contributing Editor Jim Motavalli is an auto writer and author (nine books) who contributes to Autoweek and Barron’s Mansion Global. He has written two books on electric cars, Forward Drive (2000) and High Voltage (2010), and hosts the Plugging In podcast. Motavalli’s writing has appeared in the New York Times, CBS Moneywatch, Car Talk at NPR, Forbes, US News and World Report, Sierra Magazine, Audubon, and many more. In his spare time, he reviews books and jazz.