https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69276163/2026-renault-twingo-e-tech-reveal

VIEW GALLERY Renault If you want to move more people into electric vehicles, this is how you do it. You create something irresistibly cute and then price it where folks can afford it That’s the tack Renault is undertaking with the resurrection of a beloved nameplate, the Twingo. The French automaker just unveiled its 2026 Twingo E-Tech, a fully electric revival of the once très-popular city car. This new Twingo brings back the playful styling and urban practicality of the 1993 original while aiming to become one of the most affordable EVs on the market. Related Story 2026 Porsche Macan GTS Makes Electricity Fun The Twingo E-Tech rides on Renault’s new AmpR Small platform, the same foundation underpinning the forthcoming Renault 5 and 4 electric models. The platform is designed specifically for compact city cars, with the intent of consuming just 10 kWh per 62 miles, which would make it, for comparison’s sake, more efficient than anything sold in the US market. Design-wise, the Twingo is brimming with cuteness, more so even than that first-generation car with its charming egg-shaped, one-box design. The short overhangs, tall greenhouse, and shoe-button-round headlights harken back to the original, but all these defining cues are rendered in modern fashion, from flush LED lighting to a smooth, aerodynamic front end. VIEW GALLERY Renault Even the color palette is fun, all of the paint options bright, bold, and saturated. Renault promises a spacious interior despite its diminutive size, and clever storage solutions throughout. While we await a full disclosure of specs, it is expected the new Twingo will offer a range of around 190 miles and support fast charging. Renault CEO Luca de Meo says the reborn Twingo represents the company’s push for “democratizing electric mobility” while keeping the model’s charm and accessibility intact. “The original Twingo was cheeky, efficient, and loved by millions,” de Meo said. “We want the new Twingo E-Tech to do the same for the electric age.” Production is set to begin in 2026, with European sales following shortly after. Even if and when Renault returns to US shores, expected (under the Alpine brand) in a few years, don’t hold your breath that we’ll get anything so cute and affordable as this. And that’s too bad. Natalie Neff But for a couple of sketchy, short-lived gigs right out of college, Natalie Neff has had the good fortune to spend the entirety of her professional life around cars. A 2017 Honda Ridgeline, 1972 VW Beetle, 1999 Ducati Monster and a well-loved purple-and-white five-speed Schwinn currently call her garage home.