https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonway

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Jonway ) Chinese automotive company This article needs to be updated . Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. ( August 2019 ) Zhejiang Jonway Automobile Co., Ltd. Industry Automotive Founded 2003 ; 22 years ago ( 2003 ) Headquarters Taizhou , Zhejiang , China Products Automobiles Number of employees 800 Parent ZAP (51%) Zhejiang Jonway Automobile Co., Ltd. ( Chinese : 浙江永源汽车有限公司 ; pinyin : Zhèjiāng yǒng yuán qìchē yǒuxiàn gōngsī ), trading as Jonway Automobile , is a Chinese automobile manufacturer founded in 2003 and based in Taizhou , Zhejiang . History [ edit ] The Jonway Automobile represents the automotive division of the Jonway Group created in 2005. The first product launched on the market was the model Jonway UFO A380 a copy (not licensed) of the second generation Toyota RAV4 (XA20) proposed in both three-door short wheelbase and five-door long wheelbase. The car immediately got high media exposure because of the similarity with the original Japanese model in every detail. [ 1 ] The model was subsequently exported to many Asian markets and also appeared in Europe at the International Motor Show Germany 2007 in Frankfurt am Main . Also in 2007, Jonway and DR Motor Company signed an agreement for the assembly of the UFO three-door in Macchia d'Isernia in Italy in a restyled and re-homologated version for European standards; the car renamed DR3 was unveiled at the concept car stage at the Bologna Motor Show 2007. [ 2 ] However, the negotiations with DR Motor failed and the project for the European UFO/DR3 was abandoned. [ 3 ] In July 2010, the American manufacturer ZAP acquired 51% of Jonway Automobile and the joint venture ZAP-Jonway was created, specializing in the construction of electric cars ; the first product was the A380 EV launched on the Chinese market. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] In 2012, Jonway bought the historic "Viotti" name belonging to Carrozzeria Viotti and relaunched the company, establishing new headquarters in Rivoli , in the province of Turin . The new company represented the European division of Jonway as well as the research and development center specializing in the design of hybrid vehicles, and in the engineering of sports cars. [ 6 ] Emanuele Bomboi is hired as head of design. [ 7 ] It signed an agreement with the Maggiora coachbuilder to make a deep restyling of its UFO-A380 model. [ 8 ] The model exhibited at the concept car stadium was to go into production at the end of 2013. [ 9 ] In May of the same year, it launched a minivan called Wuxing on the Chinese market. [ 10 ] In 2013, it presented a second SUV named Falcon based on the mechanics and body of the A380 but with a completely new exterior and interior design. [ 11 ] In 2014, it sold the shares of Viotti to the Fabbrica Italiana Automobili Maggiora S.r.l. In April 2012, the Chinese automaker Zhejiang Jonway Group purchased the intellectual property of Aptera Motors from creditors, and in May, it announced that it would start manufacturing the 2e at its factory in Shanghai and intended to ship chassis to a small assembly plant, initially employing 15-20 people, that it would set up in Santa Rosa, with sales commencing in early 2013. Jonway was a major investor in Zap Jonway , which had been working on electric cars in Santa Rosa since the mid-1990s. The company planned to name the US company "Zaptera USA" and it displayed a prototype 2e next to a Zap Jonway car at the Beijing Motor Show. However, the close association with Zap was met with protest by electric-car enthusiasts and by May, the company said it would call the company Aptera USA and keep it independent of Zap Jonway. [ 12 ] In June 2013, Zaptera USA said it would split into two companies: the existing Jonway-owned Zaptera USA, and an independent Aptera USA; Zaptera would make the all-electric 2e and Aptera would make a gasoline-powered version called the 2g. [ 13 ] However, by mid-May the following year, those new Aptera companies had gone silent. [ 14 ] Products [ edit ] Jonway Automobile products are listed as follows: Jonway A380 - compact crossover Jonway Falcon - compact crossover Jonway Wuxing - compact MPV Jonway E4X3 A Jonway UFO 3-door at the IAA 2007 in Frankfurt am Main Jonway UFO 5-door A Dongfeng Skio Junfeng rebadged Jonway Wuxing (The Skio Junfeng is based on the Jonway Wuxing platform and design) References [ edit ] ^ Jonway UFO and Toyota RAV4 ^ DR Motor nuove DR5 e DR3 ^ Italy's DR Motor builds Chinese SUV [ permanent dead link ] ^ "ZAP-Jonway Moves Forward, A380 EV Exposed" . ChinaAutoWeb.com. ^ "Electric carmaker ZAP plans JV with China's Jonway" . Reuters. 8 July 2010 . Retrieved 5 February 2013 . ^ Ingegneria e polo del design. I colossi della nuova Cina guardano al Piemonte ^ Willys AW 380 Berlineta, il marchio e il powertrain ^ Facelift Jonway A380 ^ Facelifted Jonway A380 SUV debuts on the Shanghai Auto Show ^ New Wuxing minivan ^ Jonway Falcon SUV hits the Chinese car market ^ Quackenbush (May 7, 2012). "Santa Rosa said to be home for reborn Aptera electric roadster" . North Bay Business Journal . Retrieved March 15, 2023 . ^ Coxworth, Ben (June 10, 2013). "New company set to resurrect the Aptera automobile" . New Atlas . ^ Sloan, Jeff (May 31, 2014). "Where Are They Now?" . CompositesWorld . Gardner Business Media, Inc . Retrieved 14 January 2020 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Jonway . Official website of the Zhejiang Jonway Automobile Archived 2019-12-18 at the Wayback Machine https://jonway-europe.com/ https://www.jonwayev.com/ v t e Automotive industry in China Automotive industry Economy of China Transport in China Chinese vehicle manufacturers Current Aiways Aoxin BAIC Group Arcfox BAIC BluePark Stelato BAW Foton Yinxiang Group Baoneng Motor BeiBen BeyonCa Brilliance Auto Group Brilliance Jinbei SWM BYD Company BYD Denza Fangchengbao Songsan Yangwang Changan Avatr Deepal CHTC Motor Bonluck Chery C&C Trucks Cenntro Exeed Exlantix iCar Jaecoo Jetour Kaiyi Karry Lepas Luxeed Omoda Rely Soueast Wanda Bus CNJ Dayun Group Dayang Dayun Yuanhang Dial EV Dongfeng DFAC Dongfeng Motor Group Dongfeng Liuzhou Forthing Dongfeng Fengshen Dongfeng Nammi Dongfeng Nengdi Dongfeng Xiaokang M-Hero Voyah FAW Bestune FAW Bus and Coach FAW Car FAW Jiefang Hongqi Fujian Motors King Long Golden Dragon Higer Bus GAC Aion Hyptec Denway GAC Bus Trumpchi Geely CAMC Farizon Tangjun Ou Ling Geely Auto Geely Galaxy Lynk & Co Zeekr Lifan Livan Radar GWM Changzheng Confidence Haval Ora Tank Wey GreenWheel EV Grove Haima Hawtai Heibao Henrey Hozon JAC Ankai Maextro Sehol Jiangling Investment JMC JMC Heavy Duty Vehicle JMC Yusheng Jiangling Motor Holding Jintan Auto Group JMCG Jingma Motor Jonway Joylong JuneYao Auto Yudo Auto Kandi Kawei Kingstar Leapmotor Lichi Li Auto Lishan Bus Mudan Auto Min'an Electric Nanjing Golden Dragon Bus Skyworth Auto Nio Firefly Onvo Qingling Qingyuan Auto Rox Motor SAIC Motor IM Motors Maxus MG Roewe SAIC Sunwin SG China Flxible Huanghai Bus Shacman Shandong Huoyun Sinotruk Sinotruk (Hong Kong) Seres Group Seres AITO Seres Hubei Suda Sunlong Bus Techrules Tengzhong Thunder Power Wanshan Wanxiang Weichai Weltmeister WindBooster Wuzheng Wuzhoulong Xiaomi Auto Xinkai XPeng Foday Yaxing YTO Group Yutong Zhongtong Zotye Jiangnan Automobile ZX Auto Former Baolong Bordrin Borgward Group Byton Chang Jiang EV Changfeng Changhe Changzhou Changjiang Bus Ciwei Dadi Dongfeng Fengxing Jingyi Dorcen Emgrand Enovate Etsong EuAuto Technology Evergrande New Energy Auto Hengchi FAW Jilin Tianjin FAW Geely Geometry Gonow Hafei Hanteng Hunkt Huali Huaxiang Fuqi Huayang Human Horizons HiPhi Huoyun Hycan JMCGL JTC Jidu Ji Yue Landwind Levdeo Yema Maple/Shanghai Maple Nanjing Niutron Oshan Polarsun Qiantu Qoros Rayttle Riich Rising Auto Senova Shengyang Shenfei Shuanghuan Red Star Singulato Sinogold SiTech Gyon Soar Tiger Truck Wanfeng Weiwang Yangcheng Auto Yangtse Youngman Youxia Motors Zedriv Sino-foreign joint venture vehicle manufacturers Current Beijing Benz Beijing Hyundai BMW Brilliance Zinoro Changan Ford Changan Mazda Chery Jaguar Land Rover Freelander Dongfeng Honda Ciimo Dongfeng Nissan Infiniti Venucia Dongfeng Peugeot-Citroën Fukang Hedmos Dongfeng Yueda Kia FAW-GM FAW Toyota FAW-Volkswagen Jetta Fujian Benz GAC Commercial Vehicle GAC Toyota GAC Honda Everus Jiangxi Isuzu JMEV Mobilize Naveco Renault Brilliance Jinbei Jinbei SAIC-GM SAIC-GM-Wuling Baojun Wuling SAIC Hongyan SAIC Volkswagen AUDI SDLG Spotlight Automotive Volkswagen Anhui Former Dongvo Changan Ford Mazda Changan PSA Changan Suzuki Changzhou Iveco Dongfeng Fengdu Dongfeng Renault Dongfeng Yulon Europestar GAC Fiat Chrysler GAC Mitsubishi Guangzhou Peugeot Huasong Leahead Nanjing Fiat Ranz Sanjiang Renault Shenfei Hino Silk-FAW Subsidiaries of foreign companies Honda Automobile (China) Lexus (Shanghai) New Energy Tesla China ( Giga Shanghai ) Toyota Motor China Volkswagen Group China Other Plug-in electric vehicles in China Auto China Auto Guangzhou Auto Shanghai Automechanika China Association of Automobile Manufacturers TJ Innova Wanxiang Weichai Power Zhongsheng N.B. Only companies and organisations from Mainland China and Hong Kong are included Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jonway_Automobile&oldid=1320846545 " Categories : Car manufacturers of China Companies based in Taizhou, Zhejiang Vehicle manufacturing companies established in 2005 Chinese brands 2005 establishments in China Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2020 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia articles in need of updating from August 2019 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Articles containing simplified Chinese-language text Commons category link is on Wikidata Webarchive template wayback links