https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WEEE_directive

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from WEEE directive ) 2003 European Union directive "WEEE" redirects here. For the general topic, see Electronic Waste . For the Low-Powered TV Station, see WEEE-LP . The WEEE symbol with the black line (or bar) The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive ( WEEE Directive ) is a European Community Directive , numbered 2012/19/EU, concerned with waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). Together with the RoHS Directive 2011/65/EU, it became European Law in February 2003. The WEEE Directive set collection , recycling and recovery targets for all types of electrical goods , with a minimum rate of 4 kilograms (9 lb) per head of population per annum recovered for recycling by 2009. The RoHS Directive set restrictions upon European manufacturers as to the material content of new electronic equipment placed on the market . The symbol adopted by the European Council to represent waste electrical and electronic equipment comprises a crossed-out wheelie bin with or without a single black line underneath the symbol. The black line indicates that goods have been placed on the market after 2005, when the Directive came into force. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Goods without the black line were manufactured between 2002 and 2005. In such instances, these are treated as "historic WEEE" and fall outside reimbursement via producer compliance schemes. The origins of the black line (or bar) stem from Directive 2012/19/EU [ 3 ] referencing European standard EN 50419. This standard gives two options for marking of equipment manufactured after 13 August 2005, namely 1) adding the date of manufacture to the label or 2) applying the line/bar underneath the bin logo. Directive revisions [ edit ] The directive has undergone a number of minor revisions since its inception in 2002 (Directive 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003). These include updates in 2006 and 2009. After nine years the Directive was seen as failing to achieve some of its goals, hence the legislation had been amended again. On 20 December 2011 the European Parliament and the European Council agreed on amendments to the Directive, subject to a second-reading vote, which was taken on 19 January 2012. The changes affect the method for calculating collection rates, which were previously 4 kg (9 lb) per inhabitant per year. To provide a transitional period of seven years to introduce the revised method of calculation, the present method is retained for the first four years from the time the amended Directive comes into force. For the next three years, commencing with the fifth year after the amendment, the calculation of collection rates will be revised to 45% of the weight of E&E products entering the market. Once this seven years transitional period is over, EU member states will individually select the actual collection options they wish to use. The overall aim was for the EU to recycle at least 85% of electrical and electronics waste equipment by 2016. [ 4 ] Member state implementation [ edit ] The directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers or distributors of such equipment. [ 5 ] It requires that those companies establish an infrastructure for collecting WEEE, in such a way that "Users of electrical and electronic equipment from private households should have the possibility of returning WEEE at least free of charge". The directive saw the formation of national "producer compliance schemes", [ 6 ] into which manufacturers and distributors paid an annual fee for the collection and recycling of associated waste electronics from household waste recycling centres. Amending acts and secondary legislation [ edit ] Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) has replaced Directive 2002/96/EC. Several amending acts and secondary legislation have been established to support and enhance the implementation of this directive. One such act is Commission Decision 2005/369/EC of 3 May 2005, which laid down rules for monitoring the compliance of Member States and established data formats for the purposes of Directive 2002/96/EC on WEEE. Additionally, Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/699 of 18 April 2017 established a common methodology for calculating the weight of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) placed on the market in each Member State and for calculating the quantity of WEEE generated by weight in each Member State. Further, Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2019/2193 of 17 December 2019 set forth rules for the calculation, verification, and reporting of data, along with establishing data formats for the purposes of Directive 2012/19/EU on WEEE. [ 7 ] Categorisations of WEEE [ edit ] Annex II of Directive 2012/19/EU includes an indicative list of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) that falls under the categories outlined in Annex I. From the reference year 2019 onwards, all EEE must be classified within six product categories specified in Annex III. These categories are: Temperature exchange equipment Screens, monitors, and equipment containing screens with a surface greater than 100 cm 2 Lamps Large equipment (any external dimension more than 50 cm), which includes but is not limited to household appliances , IT and telecommunication equipment, consumer equipment, luminaires, equipment for reproducing sound or images, musical equipment , electrical and electronic tools, toys , leisure and sports equipment , medical devices , monitoring and control instruments, automatic dispensers, and equipment for the generation of electric currents. This category excludes equipment included in categories 1 to 3. Small equipment (no external dimension more than 50 cm), which includes but is not limited to household appliances, consumer equipment, luminaires, equipment for reproducing sound or images, musical equipment, electrical and electronic tools, toys, leisure and sports equipment, medical devices, monitoring and control instruments, automatic dispensers, and equipment for the generation of electric currents. This category excludes equipment included in categories 1 to 3 and 6. Small IT and telecommunication equipment (no external dimension more than 50 cm). [ 7 ] UK implementation [ edit ] Waste electrical items accumulate at a dump . Prior to the implementation of the WEEE directive in the UK, waste electronic and electrical equipment was disposed of in the household (municipal) waste stream. Post the introduction of the Hazardous Waste Regulations, [ 8 ] exclusions apply to electrical and electronic equipment that are deemed hazardous. Hazardous wastes are derived (issued with a universal EU descriptor) from the European Waste Catalogue (known in the UK as the List of Wastes), [ 9 ] which denotes wastes with a six digit number in three sets of two. Hazardous wastes are denoted with an asterisk at the end of the number. Hazardous electronic wastes comprise: [ 10 ] Uninterruptible power supplies , lead–acid batteries Cathode-ray tubes (televisions, computer monitors ) Fluorescent tubes , backlights to laptop screens, thin-film transistors Electrical/electronic equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) Fridges and freezers , due to chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), an ozone-depleting substance. As of 2012 revisions to the regulations, all refrigerants are considered Hazardous. WEEE that is delivered to household waste recycling centres (HWRC), also known as designated collection facilities (DCFs), is collected by or delivered to approved authorised treatment facilities (AATFs).  The waste electrical and electronic equipment is then weighed and categorised in accordance with the directive. Post re-processing (recycling), total volumes of each category are reported to the producer compliance scheme [ 11 ] and the reprocessor is reimbursed accordingly.  Totals of obligated WEEE for all AATFs are collated by the environment agency on a quarterly basis and reported to the EU. Historically, there were problems with the implementation of the producer compliance schemes due to a "double counting" and reporting of reprocessed WEEE to producer compliance schemes.  This arose where obligated WEEE was partially treated by the first AATF to receive the waste, prior to it being passed onto a second AATF for further treatment.  Both the first and second AATF would then claim against the same waste electronics, resulting in a "net debt" against the wastes being treated. Additional legislation that applies is: The Environmental Protection (Duty of Care) Regulations 1991 [ 12 ] Hazardous Waste Regulations (England & Wales) 2005 [ 8 ] Waste Framework Directive , or Directive 2008/98/EC [ 13 ] The management of WEEE is applied via the waste hierarchy , with particular emphasis upon reduction of waste arising, re-use of equipment and recycling (recovery) of materials: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle . [ 14 ] In January 2012, proposals were debated by the European Parliament to recast the WEEE Directive. The proposals included increasing recycling rates. Having been adopted by member states, the re-drafted directive now requires higher recovery rates of 20 kg (44 lb) per capita per annum as opposed to previous figures of 4 kilograms (9 lb) per capita . Public awareness [ edit ] WEEE Man at the Eden Project In April 2005 the Royal Society of Arts in the UK (in conjunction with Canon ) unveiled a 7 m tall sculpture titled WEEE Man on London's South Bank , made from 3.3 tonnes of electrical goods—the average amount of electrical waste one UK individual creates in a lifetime. [ 15 ] It was designed by Paul Bonomini and fabricated by Stage One Creative Services. [ 16 ] The giant figure was subsequently moved to the Eden Project in Cornwall as part of a UK tour. [ 17 ] See also [ edit ] China RoHS Computer recycling Cradle-to-cradle design Digger gold eDay Electronic waste Electronic waste by country Electronic Waste Recycling Act (disambiguation) Green computing RoHS RREUSE References [ edit ] ^ "European Standard EN 50419" (PDF) . European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization . Retrieved 9 April 2012 . ^ "European Standard EN 50419" (PDF) . European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization. Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 November 2015. ^ Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) Text with EEA relevance ^ "Archived copy" . Archived from the original on 25 March 2018 . Retrieved 24 March 2018 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: archived copy as title ( link ) ^ European Council. "The Producer Responsibility Principle of the WEEE Directive" (PDF) . Archived (PDF) from the original on 5 March 2016. ^ Northern Ireland Government. "EEE Producer Obligations" . Archived from the original on 15 December 2011. ^ a b "Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) by waste management operations (env_waselee)" . ec.europa.eu . Retrieved 9 July 2024 . This article incorporates text from this source, which is available under the CC BY 4.0 license. ^ a b "The Hazardous Waste Regulations (2005) as amended (2009)" (PDF) . Dept. for the Environment, Food & Rural Affairs. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 June 2012. ^ European Council. "European Waste Catalogue" . ^ "Recycling Computers- Legislation" . IT-Green. Archived from the original on 19 February 2012. ^ "Producer Compliance Schemes" . Scottish Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original on 15 January 2012. ^ The National Archives (UK). "The Environmental Protection (Duty of Care) Regulations 1991" . Government of the United Kingdom. Archived from the original on 11 February 2012. ^ Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain Directives ^ Agency, Environment. "Your Waste Responsibilities" . Archived from the original on 3 January 2012. ^ "WEEE Man Sculpture ICER – Industry Council for Electronic Equipment Recycling" . ^ Project, Eden (12 February 2015). "WEEE Man Sculpture, Eden Project, Cornwall" . ^ "Gallery" . Weee Man. Archived from the original on 20 August 2005 . Retrieved 2 June 2014 . External links [ edit ] European Commission WEEE page RoHS directive ( 02011L0065-20230301 ) WEEE directive ( 02012L0019-20180704 ) www.weeelogic.com : WEEE compliance hub in Europe and beyond (WEEE, battery, packaging) www.weeelogic.com [ 1 ] [ 2 ] ecosurety – Expert WEEE compliance support and advice EC4P – WEEE regulations in EU countries Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) , The Environment Agency (UK government) VCA - The UK Enforcement Body for WEEE Distributor Obligations More on WEEE from Electronics Weekly WEEE Forum v t e Biosolids , waste , and waste management Major types Agricultural wastewater Biodegradable waste Biomedical waste Brown waste Chemical waste Construction waste Demolition waste Electronic waste by country Food waste Green waste Hazardous waste Heat waste Industrial waste Industrial wastewater Litter Marine debris Mining waste Municipal solid waste Open defecation Packaging waste Post-consumer waste Radioactive waste Scrap metal Sewage Sharps waste Surface runoff Toxic waste Processes Anaerobic digestion Balefill Biodegradation Composting Durable good Ecological design Garden waste dumping Illegal dumping Incineration Landfill Landfill mining Mechanical biological treatment Mechanical sorting Photodegradation Reclaimed lumber Recycling appliance recycling battery recycling bottle recycling fluorescent lamp recycling land recycling plastic recycling textile recycling timber recycling tire recycling water heat recycling water recycling shower Repurposing Resource recovery Reusable packaging Right to repair Sewage treatment Urban mining Waste collection Waste transfer station Waste sorting Waste trade Waste treatment Waste-to-energy Countries Afghanistan Albania Armenia Australia Belgium Bangladesh Brazil Bosnia and Herzegovina Egypt Georgia Hong Kong India Israel Japan Kazakhstan New Zealand Russia South Korea Sri Lanka Switzerland Syria Tanzania Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom United States Agreements Bamako Convention Basel Convention EU directives batteries Recycling framework incineration landfills RoHS vehicles waste water WEEE London Convention Oslo Convention OSPAR Convention Occupations Sanitation worker Street sweeper Waste collector Waste picker Other topics Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future China's waste import ban Cleaner production Downcycling Eco-industrial park Extended producer responsibility High-level radioactive waste management History of waste management Landfill fire Sewage regulation and administration Supervised injection site Toxic colonialism Upcycling Waste hierarchy Waste legislation Waste minimisation Zero waste Environment portal Category: Waste Index Journals Lists Organizations ^ Veolia (9 December 2014). "Veolia joins WEEElogic as UK Partner" . Veolia UK . Archived from the original on 11 September 2016 . Retrieved 28 June 2016 . ^ "WEEElogic – 1cc" . Archived from the original on 16 August 2016 . Retrieved 28 June 2016 . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Waste_Electrical_and_Electronic_Equipment_Directive&oldid=1314379747 " Categories : Electronic waste in Europe European Union technology policy Waste legislation in the European Union Waste legislation in the United Kingdom European Union directives 2003 in the environment Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Articles with imported Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 text Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use British English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in British English Use dmy dates from July 2018