https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69395335/recycled-rides-for-veterans

Deborah Robinson Every Veterans Day is a special opportunity to honor the men and women who have served the United States across the years. Tuesday’s celebration will remain in Texas veteran Ryan Zimmerer’s memory for many years to come. Zimmerer, now 38, was a member of the US Marine Corps in February 2009 when he was participating in a training exercise on the flight deck of an aircraft carrier. Zimmerer fell 50 feet from a helicopter onto the ship’s deck and suffered a long list of injuries, including two broken ankles, left hip and tailbone injuries, and a traumatic brain injury. Related Story 470-HP Jeep Wrangler Commando 392 by Fox Factory Over the course of a long road to recovery, Zimmerer endured 16 surgeries and the eventual amputation of both legs. He was medically retired from the Marines in 2010. Despite his injuries, Zimmerer never lost his love for the outdoors and his interest in hunting and fishing. Those trips were limited, however, by his mobility issues. Those problems were solved Tuesday during a Veterans Day ceremony in Plano, Texas. Zimmerer, who lives in Valley View, Texas, was among 16 veterans who were awarded specially equipped or modified vehicles built to assist with their individual physical challenges. Organized by the National Auto Body Council, the program provides vehicles for veterans selected by numerous veterans groups. Geico, Allstate, Farmers, Mercury, and Liberty Mutual donate the vehicles, and Texas Collision Centers is a program partner. Deborah Robinson Zimmerer’s GMC Sierra truck, outfitted with hand controls for operation of the accelerator and brakes and a lift system for the bed, will expand his mobility and, in particular, will open new hunting areas for Zimmerer and his sons Kane, 16, and Warren, 13. Zimmerer already owned a tractor-like mobile chair that enables him to access some forested areas. The tracks on the chair are designed to go off road and over rocks and up steep slopes, but carrying the chair into good locations has been a challenge for Zimmerer’s small truck. The lift on the truck he received Tuesday will enable him to load the 500-pound chair without the aid of others. Related Story Best Gifts for Car Lovers “Just getting places to hunt and fish with my sons has been a challenge,” Zimmerer said. “This truck will make things so much easier. We can get the track chair into better places and will be able to experience so much more of the wilderness. It’s going to make a big difference in our family’s life.” Zimmerer said he has had 10 leg surgeries in the past year and most targeted an infection at a surgical site. He has been outfitted with prosthetics and said his mobility has improved significantly with those additions. “Now today will make everything just that much better,” he said. Other veterans—all Texas residents—who received vehicles Tuesday were Bryant Sanders, Gabriel Torres Vargas, Dayunna Sias, Charles Brown, Dontreal Byars, LaCata Jenkins, Matt Taulauniu, Trey Macaluso, Jevon LeBlanc, Terry Andrews, Brandon Lockett, McKinley Mamon, Robert Silva, Jarion Ervin, and Michael Rodriguez. Mike Hembree Contributing Editor Mike Hembree has covered auto racing for numerous media outlets, including USA Today, NASCAR Scene, NBC Sports, The Greenville News and the SPEED Channel. He has been roaming garage areas and pit roads for decades (although the persistent rumor that he covered the first Indianapolis 500 is not true). Winner of numerous motorsports and other media awards, he also has covered virtually every other major sport. He lives near Gaffney, South Carolina and can be convinced to attend Bruce Springsteen concerts if you have tickets.