https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69820359/why-ev-boom-hasnt-happened

“Has China already won? I’d say no. If Chinese vehicles were to come in today, they wouldn’t sell and kill the US market, because the values and priorities of American buyers are different.” Thus spake the bluntly spoken president of Strategic Vision , Alexander Edwards, who addressed members of the International Motor Press Association and other auto journalists December 16. The California-based company consults with many automakers, including Tesla, BMW, Toyota, Jeep, Dodge, Chevrolet, Hyundai, Ford, and many more. Related Story Electrified Vehicles Top 50% of Sales in China Edwards backed up his sometimes-startling assertions with data. For instance, he said that Americans don’t currently love EVs enough to have made the Biden goal of 50% electric or zero emission new car sales by 2030 a reality. “No, we were never going to hit the volume of sales EV people wanted or projected,” Edwards said. “If you torture data enough, it will confess, but 50% people saying in surveys that they might have an interest in EVs does not translate into them actually buying one when it does not match their actual consumer needs and priorities. There’s a difference between what people are open to and what they’re considering, and what they actually buy.” “There’s a difference between what people are open to and what they’re considering, and what they actually buy. Yes, there are people thinking about EVs, but there are also a lot of people actively rejecting them. For instance, for people who need to make two-hour round trips, it just doesn’t work. The idea that EVs are for everyone is just not accurate.” The European Union has just reached a similar conclusion in easing its 2035 ban on internal-combustion engines. The new policy requires cars and trucks to make a 90% cut in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from 2021 levels (instead of 100%), giving some modest opening for vehicles with tailpipes. “The EU executive appears to have bowed to calls from carmakers to keep selling plug-in hybrids and range extenders that burn fuel as they struggle to compete against Tesla and Chinese electric vehicle makers,” said Reuters. Tesla The Tesla Roadster: Billing it as a cool, powerful and sexy sports car, rather than a boring EV, was a smart move. Edwards said Tesla did well by launching its brand with the sporty Roadster, rather than a bread-and-butter sedan. “When Tesla brought out the Roadster, it wasn't sold as an EV,” he said. “It was a best-in-class sports car that was powered by an innovative electric powertrain.” Tesla sold only 2,450 Roadsters from 2008 to 2012, but it sold them in 30 countries and the massive publicity firmly established the brand. Edwards showed charts that revealed a significant increase in EV sales when Biden came into office and (later) the California EV mandate happened. There was also an increase in people picking an EV as their second choice “even with Trump in office.” The market share of battery electrics started to level out in 2023, a chart reveals, but consideration of EVs is still increasing. In fact, it’s at the highest level ever. Related Story Rivian Is the Most Loved and Least Reliable What happened when Trump took office for the second time, Edwards said, is to accelerate the politicization of the electric car. “Trump relaxing the EV mandates did not hurt EV future consideration in general, it was more the question of making it political. It is important to note that before 2020, Republicans, overall, didn’t have a problem with EVs, they just had a problem with them for their own use. Many could even tell you why EVs were better vehicles.” That’s reflected in the data Strategic Vision compiled, which Edwards said shows that in 2025 “Republican rejection of EVs is at 70%, Democratic rejection of EVs is at 30%.” The overall rejection rate, including independents, people expressing no preference, Greens and others, is at 59%. And then there’s Elon Musk. According to Strategic Vision, “Tesla politics created real volatility in EV consideration….Democrats over-index on ‘environmental friendliness’ as a core part of vehicle personality, while Republicans over-index on ‘powerful’ and ‘looking good’ as defining traits….Democrats skew toward less expensive and alternative-fueled vehicles; Republicans skew toward more expensive, fun, and larger vehicles.” The irony is that both groups, in a blind test, could be happy with a Tesla, Rivian, Lucid, or major automaker EV. According to one Strategic Vision chart, Democrats’ top consideration in buying a new car is “overall environmental friendliness,” while for Republicans it’s “overall vehicle image.” Democrats go for fuel economy next, and Republicans “overall power and pickup.” In the company’s data, a fascinating tidbit is that 0% of Polestar owners identify as Republicans or conservatives. Related Story No Surprise: Q4 Auto Sales Fell, EVs Fell Further Some other facts about battery-electric buyers, according to Strategic Vision research: they’re younger, married, college-educated males with children living in detached homes (which makes charging easier), and they’re all about performance and being green on a median income of around $175,000. Plug-in hybrid buyers are not quite as wealthy. They’re professionals with yearly income around $150,000 and focused on fuel economy. Hybrid buyers are college graduates with $110,000 annual income. Republicans love to buy full-sized SUVs (64%) compared to only 14% for Democrats. Battery-electric owners, perhaps surprisingly given range limitations, drive a lot, an average of 1,000 miles per month. The plug-in hybrid owner does 900 miles, and the gas car owner 800. The battery-car owner also has the longest average commute, 28 miles. And women tend to drive the “functional” vehicle in the household, not the battery car. “It’s harder for women to drive the EV, because they typically say they have more things they have to do,” Edwards said. All this suggests that EVs won’t see a meteoric rise in market share. A slow and steady tick upwards is more likely. Jim Motavalli Contributing Editor Jim Motavalli is an auto writer and author (nine books) who contributes to Autoweek and Barron’s Mansion Global. He has written two books on electric cars, Forward Drive (2000) and High Voltage (2010), and hosts the Plugging In podcast. Motavalli’s writing has appeared in the New York Times, CBS Moneywatch, Car Talk at NPR, Forbes, US News and World Report, Sierra Magazine, Audubon, and many more. In his spare time, he reviews books and jazz.