https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pincers_(tool)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Hand tool This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Pincers" tool – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( September 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Selection of pincers in a mock-up blacksmiths Carpenter's pincers End-cutters Medieval pincers found in Hamburg-Harburg (15th/16th century) Pincers are a hand tool used in many situations where a mechanical advantage is required to pinch, cut or pull an object. Pincers are first-class levers , but differ from pliers in that the concentration of force is either to a point, or to an edge perpendicular to the length of the tool. This allows pincers to be brought close to a surface, which is often required when working with nails . Pincers are primarily used for removing objects (typically nails ) out of a material that they have been previously applied to. Carpenter's pincers are particularly suited to these tasks. Sharpened pincers are also used to cut away natural calluses , also called chestnuts , from a horses body. [ 1 ] Further use of pincers is the trimming of the edges of horses' hoofs. [ 2 ] If the pincers have perpendicular cutting edges, the pincers are often called end-nippers or end-cutters . They're often used in jewelry making, for trimming flat wire or cutting off the end of an ear stud. [ 3 ] Pincers, often red-hot, have also been used as an instrument of torture [ 4 ] since ancient Roman times or earlier. Pliers are a similar tool with a different type of head used for squeezing, rather than cutting and pulling. See also [ edit ] Chela (organ) Pincer (biology) References [ edit ] ^ The practice of removing chestnuts ^ The practice of trimming the edge of a horses hoof ^ "What are End Cutting Pliers and how are they used?" . maunindustries.com . Retrieved March 13, 2024 . ^ "Example of the use of pincers for torture in mediaeval Italy" . Pbs.org . Retrieved April 16, 2018 . Wikimedia Commons has media related to Pincers . v t e Hand tools Sawhorse Toolbox Workbench Adjustable spanner Antique tools Basin wrench Block plane Brace Bradawl Breaker bar Cat's paw Caulking gun Clamp Crimper Crowbar Dead-blow hammer Fish tape Gimlet Glass breaker Grease gun Hammer Hammer tacker Hawk Headlamp Hex key Hole punch Impact driver Jack Locking pliers Lug wrench Mallet Mitre box Monkey wrench Multi-tool Nut driver Paint roller Paintbrush Pencil sharpener Persian drill Pincers Pipe wrench Pliers Plumber wrench Plumber's snake Plunger Podger spanner Punch Punch down tool Scratch awl Screwdriver Sledgehammer Slide hammer Socket wrench Spike maul Staple gun Stitching awl Strap wrench Tactical light Tire iron Tongue-and-groove pliers Torque wrench Tweezers Upholstery hammer Wrench Types of tools Cleaning Cutting and abrasive Forestry Garden Hand Kitchen Machine and metalworking Masonry Measuring and alignment Mining Power Textile Woodworking Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pincers_(tool)&oldid=1318508816 " Categories : Cutting tools Pliers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from September 2009 All articles needing additional references Use mdy dates from May 2024 Commons category link is locally defined