https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Butterfly_doors

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of car door This article is about the type of car door. For the Lil Pump song, see Butterfly Doors . Side view of butterfly door on a Toyota Sera Butterfly doors are a type of car door sometimes seen on high-performance cars. They are slightly different from scissor doors . While scissor doors move straight up via hinge points at the bottom of a car's A-pillar , butterfly doors move up and out via hinges along the A-pillar. [ 1 ] This makes for easier entry and exit, at the expense of requiring more side clearance than needed for scissor doors. History [ edit ] The Alfa Romeo 33 Stradale was the first car with butterfly doors. Butterfly doors were first seen on the Alfa Romeo 33 Stradale in 1967. [ 2 ] These doors were commonly used in Group C and IMSA GTP prototypes , as they preserved the aerodynamic shape of the canopy while allowing the driver to enter and exit the car more quickly than conventional and gullwing doors. The Toyota Sera , made between 1990 and 1995, was a limited-release car designed exclusively for the Japanese market and the first mass-produced vehicle with butterfly doors. The Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren is one of the few open-top cars to use butterfly wing doors. This is made possible by having hinge points along the side of the A-pillar instead of at the top. Butterfly doors have been an adopted design of modern prototypes and sports cars such as the McLaren F1 , Toyota GT-One , Saleen S7 , Ferrari Enzo [ 3 ] (and its track day version, the FXX ), Bentley Speed 8 , Peugeot 908 HDi FAP , McLaren Senna , Maserati MC20 , and Bugatti Tourbillon . The McLaren 12C has a unique system wherein the butterfly doors do not use a top hinge. This allows the car and its convertible version to use frameless windows. Examples 1969 Alfa Romeo 33 Stradale: close-up with integrated side / canopy door-window glass Toyota Sera 1996 McLaren F1 [ 4 ] Porsche 911 GT1 Ferrari Enzo Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren Roadster LaFerrari BMW i8 Frameless butterfly doors on Maserati MC20 See also [ edit ] Gull-wing door List of cars with non-standard door designs Scissor doors Sliding doors Suicide door Swan doors Vehicle canopy References [ edit ] ^ Keith Lane (2011). Automotive A-Z: Lane's complete dictionary of automotive terms . David and Charles. ISBN 978-1845844196 . ^ This Is the Vintage Alfa Romeo That Inspired the New 8C: This Is the Vintage Alfa Romeo That Inspired the New 8C , accessdate: 15. June 2019 ^ Quinlan, Julia J. (2012). Ferrari . The Rosen Publishing Group. p. 25. ISBN 978-1448876846 . ^ "Huffs and Puffs Along the Automotive Road" . NADA's AutoExec . Vol. 79. 2007. p. 68. External links [ edit ] Media related to Automobiles with butterfly doors at Wikimedia Commons v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Butterfly_doors&oldid=1280816736 " Category : Car doors Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Commons category link is on Wikidata