https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_vehicle

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Vehicle propelled fully or mostly by electricity This article is about all types of electric transportation vehicles. For electric automobiles, see Electric car . For other uses of the term "EV", see EV . This article duplicates the scope of other articles , specifically Electric car . Please discuss this issue and help introduce a summary style to the article. ( March 2024 ) Electric vehicles around the world (left to right, from top) : Electric car : a BMW i3 charging from a standard electrical outlet. Electric aircraft : the Solar Impulse 2 , which circumnavigated the globe Electric boat , the China Zorrilla , the largest battery electric vehicle ever built. Electric high speed train : N700 Series Shinkansen of JR Central on the San'yo Shinkansen , Japan Battery electric bus : a BYD bus in Landskrona , Sweden E-bike , a Geero: with the removable battery integrated into the down tube. Electric truck : Class 8 , a Tesla Semi in Rocklin, California Electric cart : an Italcar Attiva C2S.4 An electric vehicle ( EV ) is any motorized vehicle whose propulsion is provided fully or mostly by electric power , via grid electricity or from onboard rechargeable batteries . [ 1 ] EVs encompass a wide range of transportation modes, including road ( electric cars , buses , trucks and personal transporters ) and rail vehicles ( electric trains , trams and monorails ), electric boats and submersibles , electric aircraft (both fixed-wing and multirotors ) and electric spacecraft . Early electric vehicles first came into existence in the late 19th century , when the Second Industrial Revolution brought forth electrification and mass utilization of DC and AC electric motors . Using electricity was among the preferred methods for early motor vehicle propulsion as it provided a level of quietness, comfort and ease of operation that could not be achieved by the gasoline engine cars of the time, but range anxiety due to the limited energy storage offered by contemporary battery technologies hindered any mass adoption of electric vehicles as private transportation throughout the 20th century . Internal combustion engines (both gasoline and diesel engines ) were the dominant propulsion mechanisms for cars and trucks for about 100 years, but electricity-powered locomotion remained commonplace in other vehicle types, such as overhead line -powered mass transit vehicles like electric multiple units , streetcars , monorails and trolley buses , as well as various small, low-speed, short-range battery-powered personal vehicles such as mobility scooters . Since the late 20th century, technological advancement in lithium batteries , which offer superior energy density and current output than the prior lead-acid batteries , has revived public interests in electric vehicles as zero-emission vehicle options, although most plug-in electric vehicles made during the 1990s that are not neighborhood electric vehicles had very short market runs before being discontinued completely. Manufacturers mostly switched to hybrid electric vehicles that use internal combustions engines like conventional vehicles but also have electric motors as a supplement, which are powered by electricity produced internally by motor-generators and recovered from regenerative braking . Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles , which can be recharged from an electric grid and use electric motors as the primary propulsion rather than as a supplement to combustion engines, did not see any mass production until the late 2000s, and battery electric cars did not become practical options for the consumer market until the 2010s. A subtopic of sustainability Sustainable transport Also relevant to: Transport Carfree city Climate change Eco-cities Ecodistrict Greenway New Urbanism Renewable energy Sustainable city Sustainable urbanism Transit village Urban design Aspects of sustainable transport : 15-minute city Bicycle-friendly Carbon neutral fuel Complete streets Cyclability Cycling infrastructure Electric vehicle Green vehicle Human-powered transport Vehicle Integrated transport network Mobility transition Plug-in hybrid Public transport Free Road traffic safety Transit-oriented development Transportation demand management Transportation planning Walkability Pedestrian zone Walking audit Overviews Outline of sustainability Index of sustainability articles Transport portal v t e Technological progresses in electric vehicle batteries , electric traction motors and automotive electronics (particularly electronic control units ) has made electric cars more feasible and, in some cases, more cost efficient than conventional ICE vehicles during the 21st century , with market penetration in some countries like China reaching nearly half of all new vehicles sold. [ 2 ] As a means of reducing tailpipe emissions of greenhouse gases and other air pollutants , and to reduce the dependency on fossil fuels , government incentives are also available in many areas to promote the adoption of electric cars. [ 3 ] China is the world's leading EV producer , accounting for more than 70% of global production and 67% of global sales of electric vehicles in 2024. History [ edit ] Main article: History of the electric vehicle Electric motive power started in 1827 when Hungarian priest Ányos Jedlik built the first rudimentary yet functional electric motor; the next year he used it to power a small model car. [ 4 ] In 1835, Professor Sibrandus Stratingh of the University of Groningen , in the Netherlands, built a miniature electric vehicle car, and sometime between 1832 and 1839, Robert Anderson of Scotland invented the first crude electric carriage, powered by non-rechargeable primary cells . [ 5 ] American blacksmith and inventor Thomas Davenport built a toy electric locomotive, powered by a primitive electric motor, in 1835. In 1838, a Scotsman named Robert Davidson built an electric locomotive that attained a speed of four miles per hour (6 km/h). In England, a patent was granted in 1840 for the use of rails as conductors of electric current, and similar American patents were issued to Lilley and Colten in 1847. [ 6 ] Thomas Edison and George Meister in a Studebaker electric runabout, 1909 The first mass-produced electric vehicles appeared in America in the early 1900s. In 1902, the Studebaker Automobile Company entered the automotive business with electric vehicles, though it also entered the gasoline vehicles market in 1904. However, with the advent of cheap assembly line cars by Ford Motor Company , the popularity of electric cars declined significantly. [ 7 ] Due to a lack of electricity grids [ 8 ] and the limitations of storage batteries at that time, electric cars did not gain much popularity; however, electric trains gained immense popularity due to their economies and achievable speeds. By the 20th century, electric rail transport became commonplace due to advances in the development of electric locomotives . Over time the general-purpose commercial use of electric cars was reduced to specialist roles as platform trucks , forklift trucks , ambulances, [ 9 ] tow tractors, and urban delivery vehicles, such as the iconic British milk float . For most of the 20th century, the UK was the world's largest user of electric road vehicles. [ 10 ] Electrified trains were used for coal transport, as the motors did not use the valuable oxygen in the mines. Switzerland's lack of natural fossil resources forced the rapid electrification of their rail network . One of the earliest rechargeable batteries – the nickel–iron battery – was favored by Edison for use in electric cars. EVs were among the earliest automobiles, and before the preeminence of light, powerful internal combustion engines (ICEs), electric automobiles held many vehicle land speed and distance records in the early 1900s. They were produced by Baker Electric , Columbia Electric , Detroit Electric , and others, and at one point in history outsold gasoline-powered vehicles. In 1900, 28 percent of the cars on the road in the US were electric. EVs were so popular that even President Woodrow Wilson and his secret service agents toured Washington, D.C., in their Milburn Electrics, which covered 60–70 miles (100–110 km) per charge. [ 11 ] A charging station in Seattle shows an AMC Gremlin , modified to take electric power; it had a range of about 50 miles (80 km) on one charge, 1973 Most producers of passenger cars opted for gasoline cars in the first decade of the 20th century, but electric trucks were an established niche well into the 1920s. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] [ 8 ] Several developments contributed to a decline in the popularity of electric cars. [ 14 ] Improved road infrastructure required a greater range than that offered by electric cars, and the discovery of large reserves of petroleum in Texas, Oklahoma, and California led to the wide availability of affordable gasoline/petrol, making internal combustion powered cars cheaper to operate over long distances. [ 15 ] Electric vehicles were seldom marketed as women's luxury car, which may have been a stigma among male consumers. [ 16 ] Also, internal combustion-powered cars became ever-easier to operate thanks to the invention of the electric starter by Charles Kettering in 1912, [ 17 ] which eliminated the need of a hand crank for starting a gasoline engine, and the noise emitted by ICE cars became more bearable thanks to the use of the muffler , which Hiram Percy Maxim had invented in 1897. As roads were improved outside urban areas, the electric vehicle range could not compete with the ICE. Finally, the initiation of mass production of gasoline-powered vehicles by Henry Ford in 1913 significantly reduced the cost of gasoline cars as compared to electric cars. [ 18 ] In the 1930s, National City Lines , which was a partnership of General Motors , Firestone , and Standard Oil of California purchased many electric tram networks across the country to dismantle them and replace them with GM buses. The partnership was convicted of conspiring to monopolize the sale of equipment and supplies to their subsidiary companies. Still, it was acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the provision of transportation services. The Copenhagen Summit , conducted amid a severe observable climate change brought on by human-made greenhouse gas emissions, was held in 2009. During the summit, more than 70 countries developed plans to reach net zero eventually. For many countries, adopting more EVs will help reduce the use of gasoline. [ 19 ] In recent years, the market for electric off-road motorcycles, including dirt bikes, has seen significant growth. This trend is driven by advancements in battery technology and increasing demand for recreational electric vehicles. [ 20 ] Experimentation [ edit ] General Motors EV1 electric car (1996–1998), a subject of the film Who Killed the Electric Car? In January 1990, General Motors President introduced its EV concept two-seater, the "Impact", at the Los Angeles Auto Show. That September, the California Air Resources Board mandated major-automaker sales of EVs, in phases starting in 1998. From 1996 to 1998 GM produced 1117 EV1s , 800 of which were made available through three-year leases. [ 21 ] Chrysler , Ford, GM, Honda , and Toyota also produced limited numbers of EVs for California drivers during this period. In 2003, upon the expiration of GM's EV1 leases, GM discontinued them. The discontinuation has variously been attributed to: the auto industry's successful federal court challenge to California's zero-emissions vehicle mandate, a federal regulation requiring GM to produce and maintain spare parts for the few thousand EV1s and the success of the oil and auto industries' media campaign to reduce public acceptance of EVs. A movie made on the subject in 2005–2006 was titled Who Killed the Electric Car? and released theatrically by Sony Pictures Classics in 2006. The film explores the roles of automobile manufacturers , oil industry , the U.S. government , batteries , hydrogen vehicles , and the general public, and each of their roles in limiting the deployment and adoption of this technology. Ford released a number of their Ford Ecostar delivery vans into the market. Honda, Nissan and Toyota also repossessed and crushed most of their EVs, which, like the GM EV1s, had been available only by closed-end lease. After public protests, Toyota sold 200 of its RAV4 EVs ; they later sold at over their original forty-thousand-dollar price. Later, BMW of Canada sold off a number of Mini EVs when their Canadian testing ended. The production of the Citroën Berlingo Electrique stopped in September 2005. Zenn started production in 2006 but ended by 2009. [ 22 ] Reintroduction [ edit ] The global stock of both plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) and battery electric vehicles (BEVs) has grown steadily since the 2010s. [ 23 ] Sales of passenger electric vehicles (EVs) worldwide since 2012 [ 24 ] During the late 20th and early 21st century, the environmental impact of the petroleum-based transportation infrastructure, along with the fear of peak oil , led to renewed interest in electric transportation infrastructure. [ 25 ] EVs differ from fossil fuel -powered vehicles in that the electricity they consume can be generated from a wide range of sources, including fossil fuels , nuclear power , and renewables such as solar power and wind power , or any combination of those. Recent advancements in battery technology and charging infrastructure have addressed many of the earlier barriers to EV adoption, making electric vehicles a more viable option for a wider range of consumers. [ 26 ] The carbon footprint and other emissions of electric vehicles vary depending on the fuel and technology used for electricity generation . [ 27 ] [ 28 ] The electricity may be stored in the vehicle using a battery, flywheel, or supercapacitors . Vehicles using internal combustion engines usually only derive their energy from a single or a few sources, usually non-renewable fossil fuels. A key advantage of electric vehicles is regenerative braking , which recovers kinetic energy , typically lost during friction braking as heat, as electricity restored to the on-board battery. According to the International Energy Agency's Global EV Outlook 2024, more than 14 million new electric cars were sold worldwide in 2023, representing around 18% of total car sales for the year. [ 29 ] China is the world's leading EV producer, accounting for more than 70% of global production and 67% of global sales of electric vehicles in 2024. [ 30 ] [ 31 ] Electricity sources [ edit ] EVs are much more efficient than fossil fuel vehicles and have few direct emissions. At the same time, they do rely on electrical energy that is generally provided by a combination of non-fossil fuel plants and fossil fuel plants. There are many ways to generate electricity, of varying costs, efficiency and ecological desirability. EVs can be made less polluting overall by modifying the source of electricity. In some areas, persons can ask utilities to provide their electricity from renewable energy. Therefore, it gives the greatest degree of energy resilience . [ 32 ] A passenger train, taking power through a third rail with return through the traction rails An electric locomotive at Brig , Switzerland The MAZ-7907 uses an on-board generator to power in-wheel electric motors . Connection to generator plants [ edit ] Direct connection to electric grids as is common among electric trains , trams, trolleybuses , and trolleytrucks (See also: overhead lines , third rail and conduit current collection ) Online electric vehicle collects power from electric power strips buried under the road surface through electromagnetic induction Onboard generators and hybrid EVs [ edit ] See also: Diesel–electric transmission , Petrol–electric transmission , and Hybrid vehicle Generated on-board using a diesel engine: diesel–electric locomotive and diesel–electric multiple unit (DEMU) Generated on-board using a fuel cell : fuel cell vehicle Generated on-board using nuclear energy : nuclear submarines and aircraft carriers Renewable sources such as solar power : solar vehicle It is also possible to have hybrid EVs that derive electricity from multiple sources, such as: On-board rechargeable electricity storage system (RESS) and a direct continuous connection to land-based generation plants for purposes of on-highway recharging with unrestricted highway range [ 33 ] On-board rechargeable electricity storage system and a fueled propulsion power source (internal combustion engine): plug-in hybrid For especially large EVs, such as submarines , the chemical energy of the diesel–electric can be replaced by a nuclear reactor . The nuclear reactor usually provides heat, which drives a steam turbine , which drives a generator, which is then fed to the propulsion. See Nuclear marine propulsion . A few experimental vehicles, such as some cars and a handful of aircraft use solar panels for electricity. Onboard storage [ edit ] Fuel use in vehicle designs Vehicle type Fuel used Combustion-only vehicle (ICE) Exclusively uses petroleum or other fuel. Micro hybrid electric vehicle (μHEV) Exclusively uses petroleum or other fuel, but can shut off engine to consume less. Mild hybrid electric vehicle (MHEV, BAHV) Exclusively uses petroleum or other fuel, but has electric battery to consume less. Plug-in hybrid vehicle (PHEV) Uses mixture of petroleum or other fuel and electricity from power grid . All-electric vehicle (BEV, AEV) Exclusively uses electricity from power grid. Fuel cell vehicle (FCV, FCEV) Exclusively uses hydrogen or other fuel to generate electricity. v t e These systems are powered from an external generator plant (nearly always when stationary), and then disconnected before motion occurs, and the electricity is stored in the vehicle until needed. Full Electric Vehicles (FEV). [ 34 ] Power storage methods include: Chemical energy stored on the vehicle in on-board batteries: Battery electric vehicle (BEV) typically with a lithium-ion battery Kinetic energy storage: flywheels Static energy stored on the vehicle in on-board electric double-layer capacitors Batteries, electric double-layer capacitors and flywheel energy storage are forms of rechargeable on-board electricity storage systems. By avoiding an intermediate mechanical step, the energy conversion efficiency can be improved compared to hybrids by avoiding unnecessary energy conversions. Furthermore, electro-chemical batteries conversions are reversible, allowing electrical energy to be stored in chemical form. [ 35 ] Components [ edit ] The type of battery , the type of traction motor and the motor controller design vary according to the size, power and proposed application, which can be as small as a motorized shopping cart or wheelchair , through pedelecs , electric motorcycles and scooters, neighborhood electric vehicles, industrial fork-lift trucks and including many hybrid vehicles. Battery [ edit ] Main article: Electric vehicle battery A lithium-ion battery pack of the 2011 Nissan Leaf An electric-vehicle battery (EVB) in addition to the traction battery specialty systems used for industrial (or recreational) vehicles, are batteries used to power the propulsion system of a battery electric vehicle (BEVs). These batteries are usually a secondary (rechargeable) battery, and are typically lithium-ion batteries. Traction batteries, specifically designed with a high ampere-hour capacity, are used in forklifts, electric golf carts, riding floor scrubbers, electric motorcycles, electric cars, trucks, vans, and other electric vehicles. [ 36 ] [ 37 ] Lithium-ion battery [ edit ] Battery prices fell, given economies of scale and new cell chemistries improving energy density. [ 38 ] However, general inflationary pressures, and rising costs of raw materials and components, inhibited price declines in the early 2020s. [ 38 ] Main article: Electric vehicle battery Since their first commercial release in 1991, lithium-ion batteries have become an important technology for achieving low-carbon transportation systems. Most electric vehicles use lithium-ion batteries (Li-Ions or LIBs). Lithium-ion batteries have a higher energy density , longer life span , and higher power density than most other practical batteries. [ 39 ] Complicating factors include safety, durability, thermal breakdown, environmental impact , and cost . Li-ion batteries should be used within safe temperature and voltage ranges to operate safely and efficiently. [ 40 ] Increasing the battery's lifespan decreases effective costs and environmental impact. One technique is to operate a subset of the battery cells at a time and switching these subsets. [ 41 ] In the past, nickel–metal hydride batteries were used in some electric cars, such as those made by General Motors. [ 42 ] These battery types are considered outdated due to their tendencies to self-discharge in the heat. [ 43 ] Furthermore, a patent for this type of battery was held by Chevron, which created a problem for their widespread development. [ 44 ] These factors, coupled with their high cost, has led to lithium-ion batteries leading as the predominant battery for EVs. [ 45 ] The prices of lithium-ion batteries have declined dramatically over the past decade, contributing to a reduction in price for electric vehicles, but an increase in the price of critical minerals such as lithium from 2021 to the end of 2022 has put pressure on historical battery price decreases. [ 46 ] [ 47 ] Electric motor [ edit ] Electric truck e-Force One Main article: Traction motor The power of a vehicle's electric motor , as in other machines, is measured in kilowatts (kW). Electric motors can deliver their maximum torque over a wide RPM range. This means that the performance of a vehicle with a 100 kW electric motor exceeds that of a vehicle with a 100 kW internal combustion engine, which can only deliver its maximum torque within a limited range of engine speed. Efficiency of charging varies considerably depending on the type of charger, [ 48 ] and energy is lost during the process of converting the electrical energy to mechanical energy. Usually, direct current (DC) electricity is fed into a DC/AC inverter where it is converted to alternating current (AC) electricity and this AC electricity is connected to a 3-phase AC motor. For electric trains, forklift trucks , and some electric cars, DC motors are often used. In some cases, universal motors are used, and then AC or DC may be employed. In recent production vehicles, various motor types have been implemented; for instance, induction motors within Tesla Motor vehicles and permanent magnet machines in the Nissan Leaf and Chevrolet Bolt . [ 49 ] Energy and motors [ edit ] An electric powertrain used by Power Vehicle Innovation for trucks or buses [ 50 ] Tesla Model S drive motor Mounted on chassis Cutaway view Electric motors are mechanically very simple and often achieve 90% energy conversion efficiency [ 51 ] over the full range of speeds and power output and can be precisely controlled. Motion is provided by a rotary electric motor. However, it is possible to "unroll" the motor to drive directly against a special matched track. These linear motors are used in maglev trains which float above the rails supported by magnetic levitation . This allows for almost no rolling resistance of the vehicle and no mechanical wear and tear of the train or track. In addition to the high-performance control systems needed, switching and curving of the tracks becomes difficult with linear motors, which to date has restricted their operations to high-speed point to point services. Electric traction allows the use of regenerative braking , in which the motors are used as brakes and become generators that transform the motion of, usually, a train into electrical power that is then fed back into the lines. This system is particularly advantageous in mountainous operations, as descending vehicles can produce a large portion of the power required for those ascending, and in start-and-stop city use. This regenerative system is only viable if the system is large enough to use the power generated by descending vehicles. They can be finely controlled and provide high torque from stationary-to-moving, unlike internal combustion engines, and do not need multiple gears to match power curves. This removes the need for gearboxes and torque converters . EVs provide quiet and smooth operation and consequently have less noise and vibration than internal combustion engines. [ 52 ] While this is a desirable attribute, it has also evoked concern that the absence of the usual sounds of an approaching vehicle poses a danger to blind, elderly and very young pedestrians. To mitigate this situation, many countries mandate warning sounds when EVs are moving slowly, up to a speed when normal motion and rotation (road, suspension, electric motor, etc.) noises become audible. [ 53 ] Electric motors do not require oxygen, unlike internal combustion engines; this is useful for submarines and for space rovers . Vehicle types [ edit ] Neighborhood Electric Vehicle , Squad Solar NEV, with solar panel roof It is generally possible to equip any kind of vehicle with an electric power-train. Electric ground vehicles [ edit ] Pure-electric vehicles [ edit ] See also: Electric car and Battery electric vehicle A pure-electric vehicle or all-electric vehicle is powered exclusively through electric motors. The electricity may come from a battery ( battery electric vehicle ), solar panel ( solar vehicle ) or fuel cell ( fuel cell vehicle ). Hybrid electric vehicles [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Hybrid electric vehicle . [ edit ] A hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) is a type of hybrid vehicle that couples a conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) with one or more electric engines into a combined propulsion system . The presence of the electric powertrain , which has inherently better energy conversion efficiency , is intended to achieve either better fuel economy or better acceleration performance than a conventional vehicle . There is a variety of HEV types and the degree to which each functions as an electric vehicle (EV) also varies. The most common form of HEV is hybrid electric passenger cars , although hybrid electric trucks ( pickups , tow trucks [ 54 ] and tractors ), buses , motorboats , [ 55 ] and aircraft also exist. Modern HEVs use energy recovery technologies such as motor–generator units and regenerative braking to recycle the vehicle's kinetic energy to electric energy via an alternator , which is stored in a battery pack or a supercapacitor . Some varieties of HEV use an internal combustion engine to directly drive an electrical generator , which either recharges the vehicle's batteries or directly powers the electric traction motors ; this combination is known as a range extender . [ 56 ] Many HEVs reduce idle emissions by temporarily shutting down the combustion engine at idle (such as when waiting at the traffic light ) and restarting it when needed; this is known as a start-stop system . A hybrid-electric system produces less tailpipe emissions than a comparably sized petrol engine vehicle since the hybrid's petrol engine usually has smaller displacement and thus lower fuel consumption than that of a conventional petrol-powered vehicle. If the engine is not used to drive the car directly, it can be geared to run at maximum efficiency, further improving fuel economy. There are different ways that a hybrid electric vehicle can combine the power from an electric motor and the internal combustion engine. The most common type is a parallel hybrid that connects the engine and the electric motor to the wheels through mechanical coupling. In this scenario, the electric motor and the engine can drive the wheels directly. Series hybrids only use the electric motor to drive the wheels and can often be referred to as extended-range electric vehicles (EREVs) or range-extended electric vehicles (REEVs). There are also series–parallel hybrids where the vehicle can be powered by the engine working alone, the electric motor on its own, or by both working together; this is designed so that the engine can run at its optimum range as often as possible. [ 57 ] Plug-in electric vehicle [ edit ] Main article: Plug-in electric vehicle See also: Plug-in hybrid and Electric car A plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) is any motor vehicle that can be recharged from any external source of electricity, such as wall sockets , and the electricity stored in the Rechargeable battery packs drives or contributes to drive the wheels. PEV is a subcategory of electric vehicles that includes battery electric vehicles (BEVs), plug-in hybrid vehicles, (PHEVs), and electric vehicle conversions of hybrid electric vehicles and conventional internal combustion engine vehicles. [ 58 ] [ 59 ] [ 60 ] Range-extended electric vehicle [ edit ] See also: Range extender A range-extended electric vehicle (REEV) is a vehicle powered by an electric motor and a plug-in battery. An auxiliary combustion engine is used only to supplement battery charging and not as the primary source of power. [ 61 ] On- and off-road EVs [ edit ] On-road electric vehicles include electric cars, electric trolleybuses, electric buses , battery electric buses , electric trucks , electric bicycles , electric motorcycles and scooters , personal transporters , neighborhood electric vehicles , golf carts , milk floats , and forklifts . Off-road vehicles include electrified all-terrain vehicles and electric tractors . Electric trucks [ edit ] Electric Renault Midlum used by Nestlé in 2015 An electric truck is a battery electric vehicle (BEV) designed to transport cargo , carry specialized payloads, or perform other utilitarian work. Electric trucks have serviced niche applications like milk floats , pushback tugs and forklifts for over a hundred years, typically using lead–acid batteries , but the rapid development of lighter and more energy-dense battery chemistries in the twenty-first century has broadened the range of applicability of electric propulsion to trucks in many more roles. Electric trucks reduce noise and pollution, relative to internal-combustion trucks. Due to the high efficiency and low component-counts of electric power trains, no fuel burning while idle, and silent and efficient acceleration, the costs of owning and operating electric trucks are dramatically lower than their predecessors. [ 62 ] [ 63 ] Long-distance freight has been the trucking segment least amenable to electrification, since the increased weight of batteries, relative to fuel, detracts from payload capacity, and the alternative, more frequent recharging, detracts from delivery time. By contrast, short-haul urban delivery has been electrified rapidly, since the clean and quiet nature of electric trucks fit well with urban planning and municipal regulation, and the capacities of reasonably sized batteries are well-suited to daily stop-and-go traffic within a metropolitan area. [ 64 ] [ 65 ] [ 66 ] Railborne EVs [ edit ] Main article: Railway electrification system A tram (or streetcar) in Hanover drawing current from a single overhead wire through a pantograph The fixed nature of a rail line makes it relatively easy to power EVs through permanent overhead lines or electrified third rails , eliminating the need for heavy onboard batteries. Electric locomotives , electric multiple units , electric trams (also called streetcars or trolleys), electric light rail systems , and electric rapid transit are all in common use today, especially in Europe and Asia. Since electric trains do not need to carry a heavy internal combustion engine or large batteries, they can have very good power-to-weight ratios . This allows high speed trains such as France's double-deck TGVs to operate at speeds of 320 km/h (200 mph) or higher, and electric locomotives to have a much higher power output than diesel locomotives . In addition, they have higher short-term surge power for fast acceleration, and using regenerative brakes can put braking power back into the electrical grid rather than wasting it. Maglev trains are also nearly always EVs. [ 67 ] There are also battery electric passenger trains operating on non-electrified rail lines. Hydrogen trains [ edit ] Particularly in Europe, fuel-cell electric trains are gaining in popularity to replace diesel–electric units. In Germany, several Länder have ordered Alstom Coradia iLINT trainsets, in service since 2018, [ 68 ] with France also planning to order trainsets. [ 69 ] The United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Italy, Canada [ 68 ] and Mexico [ 70 ] are equally interested. In France, the SNCF plans to replace all its remaining diesel-electric trains with hydrogen trains by 2035. [ 71 ] In the United Kingdom, Alstom announced in 2018 their plan to retrofit British Rail Class 321 trainsets with fuel cells. [ 72 ] Electric watercraft [ edit ] See also: Submarine § Propulsion , Ship § Propulsion systems , and electric boat Oceanvolt SD8.6 electric saildrive motor Electric boats were popular around the turn of the 20th century. Interest in quiet and potentially renewable marine transportation has steadily increased since the late 20th century, as solar cells have given motorboats the infinite range of sailboats . Electric motors can and have also been used in sailboats instead of traditional diesel engines. [ 73 ] Electric ferries operate routinely. [ 74 ] Submarines use batteries (charged by diesel or gasoline engines at the surface), nuclear power, fuel cells [ 75 ] or Stirling engines to run electric motor-driven propellers. Fully electric tugboats are being used in Auckland, New Zealand (June 2022), [ 76 ] Vancouver, British Columbia (October 2023), [ 77 ] and San Diego, California. [ 78 ] Electric aircraft [ edit ] Mars helicopter Ingenuity Main article: Electric aircraft Since the beginnings of aviation, electric power for aircraft has received a great deal of experimentation. Currently, flying electric aircraft include piloted and unpiloted aerial vehicles. Electric spacecraft [ edit ] Main article: Electrically powered spacecraft propulsion Electric power has a long history of use in spacecraft . [ 79 ] [ 80 ] The power sources used for spacecraft are batteries, solar panels and nuclear power. Current methods of propelling a spacecraft with electricity include the arcjet rocket , the electrostatic ion thruster , the Hall-effect thruster , and Field Emission Electric Propulsion . Space rovers [ edit ] Main article: Rover (space exploration) Electric vehicles are the only option for rovers as there is simply no oxygen gas to drive combustion engines in outer space and exoplanetary atmospheres . Crewed and uncrewed electric vehicles have been used to explore the Moon and other planets in the Solar System . On the last three missions of the Apollo program in 1971 and 1972, astronauts drove silver-oxide battery -powered Lunar Roving Vehicles distances up to 35.7 kilometers (22.2 mi) on the lunar surface. [ 81 ] Solar-powered , remotely controlled unscrewed rovers have also explored the Moon and Mars . [ 82 ] [ 83 ] Charging [ edit ] Charging stations [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Charging station . [ edit ] This article is missing information about battery-powered portable DC charging stations and other types of charging stations not used by vehicles. Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page . ( August 2025 ) Charging stations for electric vehicles: Top-left: a Tesla Roadster (2008) being charged at an electric charging station in Iwata city , Japan. Top-right: Brammo Empulse electric motorcycle at an AeroVironment charging station and Pay as you go electric vehicle charging point. Bottom-left: Nissan Leaf recharging from a NRG Energy eVgo station in Houston, Texas. Bottom-right: converted Toyota Priuses recharging at public charging stations in San Francisco, California (2009). A charging station , also known as a charge point, chargepoint, or electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), is a power supply device that supplies electrical power for recharging the on-board battery packs of plug-in electric vehicles (including battery electric vehicles , electric trucks , electric buses , neighborhood electric vehicles , and plug-in hybrid vehicles ). There are two main types of EV chargers: alternating current (AC) charging stations and direct current (DC) charging stations. Electric vehicle batteries can only be charged by direct current electricity, while most mains electricity is delivered from the power grid as alternating current. For this reason, most electric vehicles have a built-in AC-to-DC converter commonly known as the "on-board charger" (OBC). At an AC charging station, AC power from the grid is supplied to this onboard charger, which converts it into DC power to recharge the battery. DC chargers provide higher-power charging (which requires much larger AC-to-DC converters) by building the converter into the charging station to avoid size, weight and cost restrictions inside vehicles. The station then directly supplies DC power to the vehicle, bypassing the onboard converter. Most modern electric vehicles can accept both AC and DC power. Battery swapping [ edit ] Instead of recharging EVs from electric sockets, batteries could be mechanically replaced at special stations in a few minutes ( battery swapping ). Batteries with greater energy density such as metal–air fuel cells cannot always be recharged in a purely electric way, so some form of mechanical recharge may be used instead. A zinc–air battery , technically a fuel cell , is difficult to recharge electrically so may be "refueled" by periodically replacing the anode or electrolyte instead. [ 84 ] Bidirectional charging [ edit ] General Motors (GM) is adding a capability called V2H , or bidirectional charging, to allow its new electric vehicles to send power from their batteries to the owner's home. GM will start with 2024 models, including the Silverado and Blazer EVs, and promises to continue the feature through to model year 2026. This could be helpful to the owner during unexpected power grid outages because an electric vehicle is a giant battery on wheels. [ 85 ] Considerations [ edit ] Environmental impact [ edit ] Part of a series on Sustainable energy Energy conservation Arcology Building insulation Cogeneration Compact fluorescent lamp Eco hotel Eco-cities Ecohouse Ecolabel Efficient energy use Energy audit Energy efficiency implementation Energy recovery Energy recycling Energy saving lamp Energy Star Energy storage Environmental planning Environmental technology Fossil fuel phase-out Glass in green buildings Green building and wood Green building Heat pump List of low-energy building techniques Low-energy house Microgeneration Passive house Passive solar building design Sustainable architecture Sustainable city Sustainable habitat Sustainable refurbishment Thermal energy storage Tropical green building Waste-to-energy Zero heating building Zero-energy building Renewable energy Biofuel Sustainable Biogas Biomass Carbon-neutral fuel Geothermal energy Geothermal power Geothermal heating Hydropower Hydroelectricity Micro hydro Pico hydro Run-of-the-river Small hydro Marine current power Marine energy Tidal power Tidal barrage Tidal farm Tidal stream generator Ocean thermal energy conversion Renewable energy transition Renewable heat Solar Wave Wind Community Farm Floating wind turbine Forecasting Industry Lens Outline Rights Turbine Windbelt Windpump Sustainable transport Green vehicle Electric vehicle Bicycle Solar vehicle Wind-powered vehicle Human-electric Twike Plug-in Human-powered transport Helicopter Hydrofoil Land vehicle Bicycle Cycle rickshaw Kick scooter Quadracycle Tricycle Velomobile Roller skating Skateboarding Walking Watercraft Personal transporter Rail transport Tram Rapid transit Personal rapid transit Category Renewable energy portal v t e See also: Environmental aspects of the electric car , Environmental impacts of lithium-ion batteries , Environmental impact of the petroleum industry , and Environmental footprint of electric cars Learning curve of lithium-ion batteries: the price of batteries declined by 97% in three decades. [ 86 ] [ 87 ] EVs release no tailpipe air pollutants , and reduce respiratory illnesses such as asthma . [ 88 ] By reducing types of air pollution, such as nitrogen dioxide , EVs could also prevent hundreds of thousands of early deaths every year, [ 89 ] [ 90 ] especially from trucks and traffic in cities. [ 91 ] Additionally, EVs have significantly less noise pollution in urban areas, improving the quality of life overall. The carbon emissions from producing and operating an EV are, in the majority of cases less, than those of producing and operating a conventional vehicle. [ 92 ] When pursuing a cost-responsive electric charging strategy (instead of an emission-responsive charging strategy), considerably higher emissions might arise as embedded carbon emissions from electricity are dynamic. [ 93 ] EVs in urban areas almost always pollute less than internal combustion vehicles. [ 94 ] However, EVs are charged with electricity that may be generated by means that have health and environmental impacts. [ 95 ] [ 96 ] This is particularly relevant in places that rely on coal-powered electricity grids. [ 97 ] It also have negative environmental impacts due to the manufacturing and recycling of batteries. The full environmental impact of electric vehicles includes the life cycle impacts of carbon and sulfur emissions, as well as toxic metals entering the environment. [ 98 ] Despite that, ICE vehicles use far more raw materials over their lifetime than EVs. [ 99 ] One source estimates that over a fifth of the lithium and about 65% of the cobalt needed for electric cars will be from recycled sources by 2035. [ 100 ] On the other hand, when counting the large quantities of fossil fuel non-electric cars consume over their lifetime, electric cars can be considered to dramatically reduce raw-material needs. [ 100 ] One limitation of the environmental potential of EVs is that simply switching the existing privately owned car fleet from ICEs to EVs will not free up road space for active travel or public transport. [ 101 ] Electric micromobility vehicles, such as e-bikes, may contribute to the decarbonisation of transport systems, especially outside of urban areas which are already well-served by public transport. [ 102 ] Mining, extraction and production [ edit ] Information regarding the sustainability of the production process of batteries has become a politically charged topic. [ 103 ] [ obsolete source ] Business processes of raw material extraction in practice raise issues of transparency and accountability of the management of extractive resources. In the complex supply chain of lithium technology, there are diverse stakeholders representing corporate interests, public interest groups and political elites that are concerned with outcomes from the technology production and use. One possibility to achieve balanced extractive processes would be the establishment of commonly agreed-upon standards on the governance of technology worldwide. [ 103 ] The compliance of these standards can be assessed by the Assessment of Sustainability in Supply Chains Frameworks (ASSC). Hereby, the qualitative assessment consists of examining governance and social and environmental commitment. Indicators for the quantitative assessment are management systems and standards, compliance and social and environmental indicators. [ 104 ] The initial phase of electric vehicle production incurs an environmental cost, often referred to as a " carbon debt ", primarily driven by the energy-intensive manufacturing of high-voltage batteries and the extraction of critical raw materials. [ 105 ] Rare-earth metals ( neodymium , dysprosium ) and other mined metals (copper, nickel, iron) are used by EV motors, while lithium, cobalt, manganese are used by the batteries. [ 106 ] [ 107 ] In 2023 the US State Department said that the supply of lithium would need to increase 42-fold by 2050 globally to support a transition to clean energy. [ 108 ] Most of the lithium-ion battery production occurs in China , where the bulk of energy used is supplied by coal-burning power plants . The extraction and processing of these metals contributes to habitat destruction and environmental degradation. [ 109 ] For instance, the process of mining minerals such as lithium and cobalt , essential components of current battery chemistries, carries significant localized environmental hazards. Lithium mining, frequently conducted using water-intensive brine extraction , contributes to global carbon emissions, estimated at over 1.3 million tonnes of carbon annually, with every tonne of mined lithium equating to 15 tonnes of CO 2 released into the atmosphere. [ 110 ] [ 111 ] In regions rich in cobalt, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), environmental costs are substantial, including deforestation , habitat destruction and water pollution. [ 112 ] Scientists have noted high radioactivity levels in some mining regions, and industrial processes, including the pulverization of rock, release dust that causes respiratory health issues for nearby populations. [ 113 ] [ 114 ] Open-pit nickel mining has led to environmental degradation and pollution in developing countries such as the Philippines and Indonesia . [ 115 ] [ 116 ] In 2024, nickel mining and processing was one of the main causes of deforestation in Indonesia . [ 117 ] [ 118 ] Geographical distribution of the global battery supply chain [ 119 ] : 58 In 2022, the manufacturing of an EV emitted on average around 50% more CO 2 than an equivalent internal combustion engine vehicle, but this difference is more than offset by the much higher emissions from the oil used in driving an internal combustion engine Vehicle over its lifetime compared to those from generating the electricity used for driving the EV. [ 120 ] In 2023, Greenpeace issued a video criticizing the view that EVs are "silver bullet for climate", arguing that the construction phase has a high environmental impact. For example, the rise in SUV sales by Hyundai almost eliminate the climate benefits of passing to EV in this company, because even electric SUVs have a high carbon footprint as they consume much raw materials and energy during construction. Greenpeace proposes a mobility as a service concept instead, based on biking, public transport and ride sharing. [ 121 ] Life-cycle assessment [ edit ] Despite the initial manufacturing footprint, a life-cycle assessment (LCA) approach consistently confirms that electric vehicles yield superior overall lifetime greenhouse gas (GHG) performance compared to equivalent ICE vehicles. [ 122 ] [ 123 ] [ 124 ] [ 125 ] The extent of the environmental benefit is intrinsically linked to the carbon intensity of the electricity grid used to power the vehicle. In regions like China, battery electric vehicles currently achieve approximately 40% lower emissions compared to ICE vehicles over their full lifespan. However, in countries with high-intensity grids, such as India, the immediate advantage is more modest, resulting in only about 20% lower emissions (saving less than 10 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent). This context is temporary, as significant efforts are underway globally to decarbonize electricity generation; for instance, the emissions intensity of India's grid is projected to fall by 60% by 2035, rapidly increasing the environmental benefit of electrification. [ 126 ] [ 127 ] An alternative method of sourcing essential battery materials being deliberated by the International Seabed Authority is deep sea mining , however carmakers are not using this as of 2023. [ 128 ] Regulatory mechanisms, such as the EU Battery Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2023/1542) were introduced to reduce the environmental impact. [ 129 ] It covers the entire battery life cycle, from design and production, "battery passports", to use and end-of-life management. There are also national policies like those in France, which cap subsidies based on vehicle production carbon intensity. [ 130 ] [ 131 ] Energy efficiency [ edit ] EV ' tank-to-wheels ' efficiency is about a factor of three higher than internal combustion engine vehicles. [ 52 ] Energy is not consumed while the vehicle is stationary, unlike internal combustion engines which consume fuel while idling. In 2022, EVs enabled a net reduction of about 80 Mt of GHG emissions, on a well-to-wheels basis, and the net GHG benefit of EVs will increase over time as the electricity sector is decarbonised. [ 132 ] Well-to-wheel efficiency of an EV has less to do with the vehicle itself and more to do with the method of electricity production. A particular EV would instantly become twice as efficient if electricity production were switched from fossil fuels to renewable energy, such as wind power, tidal power, solar power, and nuclear power. Thus, when "well-to-wheels" is cited, the discussion is no longer about the vehicle, but rather about the entire energy supply infrastructure – in the case of fossil fuels this should also include energy spent on exploration, mining, refining, and distribution. [ 133 ] The lifecycle analysis of EVs shows that even when powered by the most carbon-intensive electricity in Europe, they emit less greenhouse gases than a conventional diesel vehicle. [ 134 ] Range [ edit ] Main articles: All-electric range and range anxiety Electric vehicles may have shorter range compared to vehicles with internal combustion engines, [ 135 ] [ 136 ] which is why the electrification of long-distance transport, such as long-distance shipping, remains challenging. In 2022, the sales-weighted average range of small BEVs sold in the United States was nearly 350 km, while in France, Germany and the United Kingdom it was just under 300 km, compared to under 220 km in China. [ 132 ] Cost of ownership [ edit ] Electric vehicles typically carry a higher initial purchase price than comparable ICE vehicles. This elevated upfront cost constitutes a significant barrier to entry. While long-term financial analyses may favor EVs, the immediate capital outlay often dictates purchasing decisions, slowing the pace of the overall market transition. [ 137 ] The higher initial price is often offset by superior total cost of ownership (TCO) over the vehicle's lifespan. [ 137 ] Operational expenses for EVs are markedly lower. [ 138 ] [ 139 ] Battery longevity and replacement [ edit ] Advances in lithium-ion batteries, driven at first by the personal-use electronics industry, allow full-sized, highway-capable EVs to travel nearly as far on a single charge as conventional cars go on a single tank of gasoline. Lithium batteries have been made safe, can be recharged in minutes instead of hours (see recharging time ), and now last longer than the typical vehicle (see lifespan ). The production cost of these lighter, higher-capacity lithium-ion batteries is gradually decreasing as the technology matures and production volumes increase. [ 140 ] [ 141 ] Research is also underway to improve battery reuse and recycling, which would further reduce the environmental impact of batteries. [ 142 ] [ 143 ] Many companies and researchers are also working on newer battery technologies, including solid state batteries [ 144 ] and alternate technologies. [ 145 ] The risk of requiring an out-of-warranty battery replacement represents the greatest source of long-term financial uncertainty for many prospective EV retail owners. Despite consumer anxieties, actual battery replacement events are statistically rare, and modern EV batteries are demonstrating significantly greater durability than initially anticipated. [ 146 ] [ 147 ] Studies have confirmed that EV batteries can outlast the vehicle's lifetime with minimal degradation. [ 148 ] The financial risk associated with future replacement is collapsing due to advancements in battery manufacturing and economics. [ 149 ] Industry reports project that global market oversupply will persist through 2028, accelerating price reductions. [ 150 ] [ 151 ] Performance in extreme climates [ edit ] Electric vehicle range and battery performance are negatively affected by extreme cold, as ambient temperatures necessitate diverting energy for cabin heating and maintaining optimal battery temperature. A comprehensive winter performance study by the Canadian Automobile Association (CAA) revealed that cold weather significantly impacts driving range, with vehicles experiencing reductions between 14% and 39% compared to their official estimates when operated at −15 ∘ C. [ 152 ] This quantifiable range loss presents a significant practical challenge for owners in cold climates. However, as the industry matures, increasing standardization and optimization of these thermal systems are expected to mitigate cold weather range anxiety. [ 153 ] Heating [ edit ] A heat pump system, capable of cooling the cabin during summer and heating it during winter, is an efficient way of heating and cooling EVs. [ 154 ] For vehicles which are connected to the grid, battery EVs can be preheated, or cooled, with little or no need for battery energy, especially for short trips. Most new electric cars come with heat pumps as standard. [ 155 ] Safety [ edit ] Electric vehicle safety regulations have evolved significantly since the initial UN ECE Regulation 100. Current regulations focus on thermal runaway protection, with various international standards mandating advance warning systems and thermal propagation containment measures. Recent technological developments address thermal runaway concerns more proactively. Advanced fire protection materials for EV batteries have become a critical research area, with developments in ceramics, mica, aerogels, coatings, and phase change materials designed to prevent or delay thermal runaway propagation. [ 156 ] Current regulations vary by region, with China being an early adopter of thermal runaway-specific requirements mandating prevention of fire or smoke exiting battery packs for five minutes after an event occurs. However, industry experts suggest longer escape times may be necessary for future regulations, with original equipment manufacturers targeting extended protection periods to pre-empt future regulatory requirements. [ 156 ] Research published in the British Medical Journal indicates that electric cars hit pedestrians at twice the rate of petrol or diesel vehicles due to being quieter. [ 157 ] Repair shops [ edit ] The infrastructure for vehicle repairs after accidents is a concern for insurers and mechanics due to safety requirements. [ 158 ] Although no fatalities have been reported in electric vehicle repair till year 2024, repairing the high voltage battery includes electric shock , arc flash and fire hazard . [ 159 ] Batteries and other components must be carefully evaluated rather than being totally written off by insurers . [ 160 ] Socio-economic [ edit ] A 2003 study in the United Kingdom found that "[p]ollution is most concentrated in areas where young children and their parents are more likely to live and least concentrated in areas to which the elderly tend to migrate," and that "those communities that are most polluted and which also emit the least pollution tend to be amongst the poorest in Britain." [ 161 ] A 2019 UK study found that "households in the poorest areas emit the least NOx and PM, whilst the least poor areas emitted the highest, per km, vehicle emissions per household through having higher vehicle ownership, owning more diesel vehicles and driving further." [ 162 ] The transport planner, Karel Martens , in a 2009 article warned that electric vehicles only solve the problem of emissions by cars while not solving or improving their impact on the amount of space used by cars or parking issues. Martens who is of the field of Transport Justice , also said that electric vehicles do not improve accessibility to people who do not own cars. [ 163 ] [ 164 ] Government incentivization [ edit ] Main article: Government incentives for plug-in electric vehicles See also: Electric car use by country The IEA suggests that taxing inefficient internal combustion engine vehicles could encourage adoption of EVs, with taxes raised being used to fund subsidies for EVs. [ 132 ] Government procurement is sometimes used to encourage national EV manufacturers. [ 165 ] [ 166 ] Many countries will ban sales of fossil fuel vehicles between 2025 and 2040. [ 167 ] Many governments offer incentives to promote the use of electric vehicles, with the goals of reducing air pollution and oil consumption. Some incentives intend to increase purchases of electric vehicles by offsetting the purchase price with a grant. Other incentives include lower tax rates or exemption from certain taxes, and investment in charging infrastructure. In the United States, federal tax credits are available for electric vehicle buyers to try and help lower the initial purchase cost. [ 168 ] European countries like Norway and Germany offer tax exemptions and reduced registration fees to encourage EV adoption. [ 98 ] Partnerships between EV manufacturers and utility companies have also provided incentives and sales on EV purchases to promote cleaner energy usage and transportation. [ 169 ] Companies selling EVs have partnered with local electric utilities to provide large incentives on some electric vehicles. [ 170 ] Infrastructure management [ edit ] With the increase in number of electric vehicles, it is necessary to create an appropriate number of charging stations to supply the increasing demand. [ 171 ] [ 172 ] While the deployment of public charging infrastructure is accelerating globally, the adoption rate of EVs risks outpacing network expansion, leading to potential future congestion. Experts concur that large-scale EV adoption will inevitably stress local distribution networks if charging is conducted randomly during peak hours of electricity demand. This unmanaged demand risks grid instability and necessitates proactive management from utilities. [ 173 ] In the United States, charging ports saw quarterly increases between 4.6% and 6.3% in early 2024. However, projections indicate a measurable risk of insufficient density. In the US, the ratio of electric light-duty vehicles per public charging point is projected to climb dramatically from approximately 18:1 in 2023 to over 80:1 by 2035 . This sharply increasing ratio confirms that current deployment, while active, may be structurally insufficient to prevent charging queues unless aggressive government targets, such as the US objective of 500,000 public charging ports by 2030, are met and exceeded. [ 174 ] Policy mandates are driving targeted deployment to alleviate infrastructure pressure. The US has announced subsidies to expand convenient charging, and countries like India have set requirements for installing chargers every 25 km along major highways. [ 175 ] Logistical hurdles regarding charge times are being addressed by rapid advancements in charging technology. Commercially available DC fast charging stations currently deliver 250-350 kW, and regulatory frameworks, such as the EU's Alternative Fuels Infrastructure Regulation (AFIR), are preparing for the eventual commercialization of 1 MW charging stations. The transition to 1 MW charging, however, requires significant investment in both installation and grid upgrades. [ 175 ] Stabilization of the grid [ edit ] Vehicle-to-grid (V2G) charger where energy can flow back into the grid if needed Since EVs can be plugged into the electric grid when not in use, battery-powered vehicles could reduce the need for dispatchable generation by feeding electricity into the grid from their batteries during periods of high demand and low supply (such as just after sunset) while doing most of their charging at night or midday, when there is unused generating capacity. [ 176 ] [ 177 ] This vehicle-to-grid (V2G) connection has the potential to reduce the need for new power plants, as long as vehicle owners do not mind reducing the life of their batteries, by being drained by the power company during peak demand. Electric vehicle parking lots can provide demand response . [ 178 ] Current electricity infrastructure may need to cope with increasing shares of variable-output power sources such as wind and solar . This variability could be addressed by adjusting the speed at which EV batteries are charged, or possibly even discharged. [ 179 ] Some concepts see battery exchanges and battery charging stations, much like gas/petrol stations today. These will require enormous storage and charging potentials, which could be manipulated to vary the rate of charging, and to output power during shortage periods, much as diesel generators are used for short periods to stabilize some national grids. [ 180 ] [ 181 ] In-development technologies [ edit ] Main article: Electric double-layer capacitor Conventional electric double-layer capacitors ( supercapacitors ) continue to be developed to achieve higher energy densities while maintaining their characteristic fast charging capabilities and extended lifespans. Recent research has focused on solid-state supercapacitor configurations that eliminate liquid electrolytes, providing enhanced safety and design flexibility. [ 182 ] Advanced developments include all-graphene oxide flexible solid-state supercapacitors with enhanced electrochemical performance, achieving areal capacitances of 14.5 mF cm⁻² among the highest values for any graphene-based supercapacitor. [ 183 ] Recent breakthroughs include dual storage mechanism nanoscale solid-state lithium-ion supercapacitors utilizing atomic layer deposition-synthesized lithium phosphorus oxynitride (LiPON) as solid-state electrolyte, demonstrating capacitance densities of 500 nF·mm⁻² with excellent cycling stability over ten thousand cycles. [ 184 ] High-performance solid-state supercapacitors have been developed using silicon electrodes with graphene interconnected networks, showing remarkable performance characteristics comparable to high-power carbon-based supercapacitors. [ 185 ] Advanced hybrid designs include all-solid-state planar micro-supercapacitors based on 2D vanadium nitride nanosheets and cobalt hydroxide nanoflowers, achieving energy densities of 12.4 mWh cm⁻³ and power densities of 1,750 mW cm⁻³. [ 186 ] Flexible solid-state supercapacitors operating across wide temperature ranges from -70 °C to 220 °C have been demonstrated using polycation-polybenzimidazole blend electrolytes doped with phosphoric acid. [ 187 ] Battery advancements [ edit ] Solid-state batteries represent one of the most promising next-generation battery technologies, offering potential advantages over conventional lithium-ion batteries including higher energy density, faster charging, improved safety, and longer lifespan. According to a comprehensive review in Chemical Engineering Journal, all-solid-state lithium batteries utilizing solid electrolytes are regarded as the next generation of energy storage devices, with recent breakthroughs significantly accelerating their path toward commercial viability. [ 188 ] The Fraunhofer ISI Solid-State Battery Roadmap 2035+, [ 189 ] developed with contributions from more than 100 European experts, provides a comprehensive assessment of solid-state battery development potential over the next decade, benchmarking against established lithium-ion batteries. [ 190 ] According to market analysis published in Scientific Talks, solid-state batteries are projected to reach mass production with costs of 140–175 USD per kWh by 2028–2030, depending on technological and manufacturing challenges. [ 191 ] Recent commercial developments include Mercedes-Benz and Factorial Energy conducting road tests of semi-solid-state batteries in the EQS sedan, promising a 25% increase in range with energy densities of 391 watt-hours per kilogram. This represents the world's first integration of lithium-metal solid-state batteries into a production vehicle. [ 192 ] However, according to IEEE Spectrum analysis, solid-state batteries face significant "production hell" challenges, with experts noting pointed skepticism toward current technical announcements and the engineering obstacles that lie ahead. [ 193 ] Toyota continues to lead development efforts, targeting solid-state battery production by 2027–2028 with goals of 1,000 km range and 10-minute fast charging capabilities. The company claims recent technological advancements have overcome previous battery life trade-offs and switched focus to mass production readiness. [ 194 ] Research published in ACS Energy Letters emphasizes that while all-solid-state batteries show promise for electric vehicles, significant challenges remain in Li-metal implementation, interfacial stability, and large-scale manufacturing. [ 195 ] Sodium-ion batteries continue to show promise with potential energy densities of 400 Wh/kg and minimal expansion/contraction during charge cycles, while relying on more abundant and cost-effective materials than lithium-ion technology. Recent research published in Energy & Fuels highlights sodium-ion and all-solid-state sodium batteries as promising choices for future energy storage systems due to abundant sodium resources and lower costs compared to lithium-based systems. [ 196 ] Battery management and intermediate storage [ edit ] Another improvement is to decouple the electric motor from the battery through electronic control, using supercapacitors to buffer large but short power demands and regenerative braking energy. [ 197 ] The development of new cell types combined with intelligent cell management improved both weak points mentioned above. The cell management involves not only monitoring the health of the cells but also a redundant cell configuration (one more cell than needed). With sophisticated switched wiring, it is possible to condition one cell while the rest are on duty. [ citation needed ] Electric roads [ edit ] Main article: Electric road Three types of electric road systems. An electric bus (black) receives power from the road: (A) with three inductive pickups (red) from a strip of resonant inductive coils (blue) embedded several centimeters under the road (gray); (B) with a current collector (red) sliding over a ground-level power supply rail segment (blue) flush with the surface of the road (gray); (C) with an overhead current collector (red) sliding against a powered overhead line (blue) An electric road system (ERS) is a road which supplies electric power to vehicles travelling on it. Common implementations are overhead power lines above the road, ground-level power supply through conductive rails, and dynamic wireless power transfer (DWPT) through resonant inductive coils or inductive rails embedded in the road. Overhead power lines are limited to commercial vehicles while ground-level rails and inductive power transfer can be used by any vehicle, which allows for public charging through a power metering and billing systems. Of the three methods, ground-level conductive rails are estimated to be the most cost-effective. [ 198 ] : 10–11 National electric road projects [ edit ] Government studies and trials have been conducted in several countries seeking a national electric road network. Korea was the first to implement an induction-based public electric road with a commercial bus line in 2013 after testing an experimental shuttle service in 2009, [ 199 ] : 11–18 but it was shut down due to aging infrastructure amidst controversy over the continued public funding of the technology. [ 200 ] United Kingdom municipal projects in 2015 [ 201 ] and 2021 found wireless electric roads financially unfeasible. [ 202 ] Sweden has been performing assessments of various electric road technologies since 2013 under the Swedish Transport Administration electric road program . [ 203 ] : 5 After receiving electric road construction offers in excess of the project's budget in 2023, Sweden pursued cost-reduction measures for either wireless or rail electric roads. [ 204 ] The project's final report was published in 2024, which recommended against funding a national electric road network in Sweden as it would not be cost-effective, unless the technology was adopted by its trading partners such as by France and Germany. [ 205 ] [ 206 ] In December 2024, the Swedish Transport Administration announced a pause in plans for the country's first permanent electric road, citing cost-benefit concerns and technological uncertainty. However, pilot projects for dynamic charging continue internationally, including in Germany and South Korea. [ 207 ] Germany found in 2023 that the wireless electric road system (wERS) by Electreon collects 64.3% of the transmitted energy, poses many difficulties during installation, and blocks access to other infrastructure in the road. [ 208 ] Germany trialed overhead lines in three projects and reported they are too expensive, difficult to maintain, and pose a safety risk. [ 209 ] [ 210 ] [ 211 ] France found similar drawbacks for overhead lines as Germany did. France began several electric road pilot projects in 2023 for inductive and rail systems. [ 212 ] Ground-level power supply systems are considered the most likely candidates. [ 213 ] Records [ edit ] World record on an electric motorcycle by Michel von Tell on a LiveWire in 2020 Rimac Nevera , an electric sports car , set 23 world speed records in one day. [ 214 ] [ 215 ] Fastest acceleration of an electric car, 0 to 100 km/h in 1.461 seconds by university students at the University of Stuttgart. [ 216 ] Electric Land Speed Record 353 mph (568 km/h). [ 217 ] Electric Car Distance Record 1,725 miles (2,776 km) in 24 hours by Bjørn Nyland . [ 218 ] Greatest distance by electric vehicle, single charge 999.5 miles (1,608.5 km). [ 219 ] Solar-powered EV is fastest EV to go over 1,000 km without stopping to recharge, the Sunswift 7. [ 220 ] Electric Motorcycle: 1,070 miles (1,720 km) under 24 hours. Michel von Tell on a Harley LiveWire. [ 221 ] Electric flight: 439.5 miles (707.3 km) without charge. [ 222 ] See also [ edit ] Energy portal Renewable energy portal Technology portal Cars portal Environment portal Electric rickshaw – E-tricycle Electriquette Wicker bench seat Neighborhood Electric Vehicle – NEV Polluter pays principle Alternative fuel vehicle Vehicle classification by propulsion system Personal electric vehicle (PEV) References [ edit ] ^ "Glossary — Global Warming of 1.5 ºC" . IPCC . Cambridge University Press . 8 October 2018 . Retrieved 4 September 2024 . ^ Randall, Chris (14 October 2025). "1.6 million NEVs: China records unprecedented electric car sales in September" . Electrive . Retrieved 12 November 2025 . ^ Pamidimukkala, Apurva; Kermanshachi, Sharareh; Rosenberger, Jay Michael; Hladik, Greg (2023). "Adoption of electric vehicles: A state-of-art review" . Transportation Research Procedia . 73 : 313– 320. doi : 10.1016/j.trpro.2023.11.923 . ^ Guarnieri, M. (2012). "Looking back to electric cars". 2012 Third IEEE HISTory of ELectro-technology CONference (HISTELCON) . pp. 1– 6. doi : 10.1109/HISTELCON.2012.6487583 . ISBN 978-1-4673-3078-7 . S2CID 37828220 . ^ Bellis, Mary (16 June 2010). "Inventors – Electric Cars (1890–1930)" . Inventors.about.com. Archived from the original on 4 July 2021 . Retrieved 26 December 2010 . ^ "History of Railway Electric Traction" . Mikes.railhistory.railfan.net. Archived from the original on 24 August 2018 . Retrieved 26 December 2010 . ^ Hendry, Maurice M. Studebaker: One can do a lot of remembering in South Bend . New Albany, Indiana: Automobile Quarterly. pp. 228– 275. Vol X, 3rd Q, 1972. p231 ^ a b Taalbi, Josef; Nielsen, Hana (2021). "The role of energy infrastructure in shaping early adoption of electric and gasoline cars" . Nature Energy . 6 (10): 970– 976. Bibcode : 2021NatEn...6..970T . doi : 10.1038/s41560-021-00898-3 . ISSN 2058-7546 . S2CID 242383930 . ^ pp.8–9 Batten, Chris Ambulances Osprey Publishing, 4 March 2008 ^ "Escaping Lock-in: the Case of the Electric Vehicle" . Cgl.uwaterloo.ca. Archived from the original on 23 September 2015 . Retrieved 26 December 2010 . ^ AAA World Magazine. Jan–Feb 2011, p. 53 ^ Kirsch, David (2000). The electric vehicle and the burden of history . Rutgers University Press. ^ Mom, Gijs (15 February 2013). The Electric Vehicle: Technology and Expectations in the Automobile Age . JHU Press. ISBN 978-1-4214-1268-9 . ^ See Loeb, A.P., "Steam versus Electric versus Internal Combustion: Choosing the Vehicle Technology at the Start of the Automotive Age," Transportation Research Record, Journal of the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, No. 1885, at 1. ^ "Automobile" , Encyclopedia Britannica , archived from the original on 30 April 2015 , retrieved 18 July 2009 ^ Scharff, Virginia (1992). Taking the Wheel: Women and the Coming of the Motor Age . Univ. New Mexico Press. ^ Matthe, Roland; Eberle, Ulrich (1 January 2014). The Voltec System – Energy Storage and Electric Propulsion . Elsevier Science. pp. 151– 176. ISBN 978-0-444-59513-3 . Archived from the original on 9 October 2020 . Retrieved 4 May 2014 . ^ Bellis, M. (2006), "The Early Years" , The History of Electric Vehicles , About.com , archived from the original on 4 July 2021 , retrieved 6 July 2006 ^ "Net Zero Coalition" . United Nations . Retrieved 2 December 2022 . ^ "Electric Dirt Bike Sales Surge as Technology Improves" . Electric Vehicle Weekly. 8 March 2024 . Retrieved 15 March 2024 . ^ Quiroga, Tony (August 2009). Driving the Future . Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., Inc. p. 52. ^ Freeman, Sunny (9 December 2009). "The end of Zenn" . The Globe and Mail . Toronto . Retrieved 25 May 2022 . ^ "Global EV Outlook 2023 / Trends in electric light-duty vehicles" . International Energy Agency. April 2023. Archived from the original on 12 May 2023. ^ "Electric car sales, 2012 – 2024" . IEA Data and Statistics . International Energy Agency . Retrieved 27 May 2025 . ^ Eberle, Ulrich; von Helmolt, Rittmar (14 May 2010). "Sustainable transportation based on EV concepts: a brief overview" . Energy & Environmental Science . 3 (6): 689. doi : 10.1039/c001674h . ISSN 1754-5692 . Archived from the original on 21 October 2013 . Retrieved 8 June 2010 . ^ Balcioglu, Yavuz Selim; Sezen, Bülent; İşler, Ali Ulvi (20 June 2024). "Evolving preferences in sustainable transportation: a comparative analysis of consumer segments for electric vehicles across Europe" . Social Responsibility Journal . 20 (9): 1664– 1696. doi : 10.1108/SRJ-12-2023-0713 . ISSN 1747-1117 . ^ Notter, Dominic A.; Kouravelou, Katerina; Karachalios, Theodoros; Daletou, Maria K.; Haberland, Nara Tudela (3 July 2015). "Life cycle assessment of PEM FC applications: electric mobility and μ-CHP". Energy Environ. Sci . 8 (7): 1969– 1985. Bibcode : 2015EnEnS...8.1969N . doi : 10.1039/C5EE01082A . ISSN 1754-5692 . ^ Notter, Dominic A.; Gauch, Marcel; Widmer, Rolf; Wäger, Patrick; Stamp, Anna; Zah, Rainer; Althaus, Hans-Jörg (1 September 2010). "Contribution of Li-Ion Batteries to the Environmental Impact of Electric Vehicles" . Environmental Science & Technology . 44 (17): 6550– 6556. Bibcode : 2010EnST...44.6550N . doi : 10.1021/es903729a . ISSN 0013-936X . PMID 20695466 . ^ "Global EV Outlook 2024" . International Energy Agency. April 2024 . Retrieved 22 September 2025 . ^ "Trends in the electric car industry" . International Energy Agency . Retrieved 25 December 2025 . ^ "Trends in electric car markets" . International Energy Agency . Retrieved 25 December 2025 . ^ "Our Electric Future – The American, A Magazine of Ideas" . American.com. Archived from the original on 25 August 2014 . Retrieved 26 December 2010 . ^ "World's first electrified road for charging vehicles opens in Sweden" . Guardian. 12 April 2018. Archived from the original on 1 September 2019 . Retrieved 1 September 2019 . ^ Richardson, D.B. (March 2013). "Electric vehicles and the electric grid: A review of modeling approaches, Impacts, and renewable energy integration". Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews . 19 : 247– 254. Bibcode : 2013RSERv..19..247R . doi : 10.1016/j.rser.2012.11.042 . ^ Liu, Chaofeng; Neale, Zachary G.; Cao, Guozhong (1 March 2016). "Understanding electrochemical potentials of cathode materials in rechargeable batteries" . Materials Today . 19 (2): 109– 123. doi : 10.1016/j.mattod.2015.10.009 . ^ Seitz, C.W. (May 1994). "Industrial battery technologies and markets". IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine . 9 (5): 10– 15. Bibcode : 1994IAESM...9e..10S . doi : 10.1109/62.282509 . ISSN 0885-8985 . ^ Tofield, Bruce C. (1985). "Future Prospects for All-Solid-State Batteries" . Solid State Batteries . Springer Netherlands. p. 424. doi : 10.1007/978-94-009-5167-9_29 . ISBN 978-94-010-8786-5 . Retrieved 3 September 2022 . ^ a b "Race to Net Zero: The Pressures of the Battery Boom in Five Charts" . 21 July 2022. Archived from the original on 7 September 2023. ^ Armand, Michel; Axmann, Peter; Bresser, Dominic; Copley, Mark; Edström, Kristina; Ekberg, Christian; Guyomard, Dominique; Lestriez, Bernard; Novák, Petr; Petranikova, Martina; Porcher, Willy; Trabesinger, Sigita; Wohlfahrt-Mehrens, Margret; Zhang, Heng (15 December 2020). "Lithium-ion batteries – Current state of the art and anticipated developments" . Journal of Power Sources . 479 228708. Bibcode : 2020JPS...47928708A . doi : 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2020.228708 . ISSN 0378-7753 . S2CID 225154703 . ^ Lu, L.; Han, X.; Li, J.; Hua, J.; Ouyang, M. (2013). "A review on the key issues for lithium-ion battery management in electric vehicles". Journal of Power Sources . 226 : 272– 288. Bibcode : 2013JPS...226..272L . doi : 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2012.10.060 . ISSN 0378-7753 . ^ Adany, Ron (June 2013). "Switching algorithms for extending battery life in Electric Vehicles". Journal of Power Sources . 231 : 50– 59. doi : 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2012.12.075 . ISSN 0378-7753 . ^ Mok, Brian. "Types of Batteries Used for Electric Vehicles" . large.stanford.edu . Archived from the original on 19 December 2017 . Retrieved 30 November 2017 . ^ "Alternative Fuels Data Center: Batteries for Hybrid and Plug-In Electric Vehicles" . afdc.energy.gov . AFDC. Archived from the original on 1 December 2017 . Retrieved 30 November 2017 . ^ "Chevron and EVs – GM, Chevron and CARB killed the sole NiMH EV once, will do so again" . ev1.org . Archived from the original on 22 November 2017 . Retrieved 30 November 2017 . ^ Aditya, Jayam; Ferdowsi, Mehdi. "Comparison of NiMH and Li-Ion Batteries in Automotive Applications" . Power Electronics and Motor Drives Laboratory. Archived from the original on 1 December 2017 . Retrieved 30 November 2017 . ^ "Global EV Outlook 2023 – Data product" . IEA . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ "Bloomberg's Latest Forecast Predicts Rapidly Falling Battery Prices" . 21 June 2018. Archived from the original on 8 January 2019 . Retrieved 4 January 2019 . ^ Voelcker, John (10 April 2021). "EVs Explained: Charging Losses" . Car and Driver . Archived from the original on 27 July 2021 . Retrieved 27 July 2021 . ^ Widmar, Martin (2015). "Electric vehicle traction motors without rare earth magnets" . Sustainable Materials and Technologies . 3 : 7– 13. Bibcode : 2015SusMT...3....7W . doi : 10.1016/j.susmat.2015.02.001 . ISSN 2214-9937 . ^ "Electric Driveline Technology – PVI, leader de la traction électrique pour véhicules industriels" . Pvi.fr. Archived from the original on 25 March 2012 . Retrieved 30 March 2012 . ^ "Project better place" . www.earpieceonline.co.uk . 7 November 2025. ^ a b "Transport: Electric vehicles" . European Commission. Archived from the original on 19 March 2011 . Retrieved 19 September 2009 . ^ "Nissan Adds 'Beautiful' Noise to Make Silent Electric Cars Safe" . Bloomberg L.P. 18 September 2009 . Retrieved 12 February 2010 . ^ Yakub, Mehanaz (25 September 2024). "Lion Electric, CAA-Quebec deploy North America's first e-tow truck" . Electric Autonomy Canada . Retrieved 17 October 2024 . ^ "History of Hybrid Vehicles" . HybridCars.com. 27 March 2006. Archived from the original on 8 February 2009 . Retrieved 21 March 2010 . ^ "Alternative Fuels Data Center: How do Hybrid Electric Cars Work?" . ^ Spendiff-Smith, Matthew (18 March 2022). "Electric Vehicles Types – A Complete Guide to Types of EV – EVESCO" . Power Sonic . ^ David B. Sandalow , ed. (2009). Plug-In Electric Vehicles: What Role for Washington? (1st. ed.). The Brookings Institution . pp. 2– 5. ISBN 978-0-8157-0305-1 . Archived from the original on 28 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 July 2013 . See definition on pp. 2. ^ "Plug-in Electric Vehicles (PEVs)" . Center for Sustainable Energy, California. Archived from the original on 20 June 2010 . Retrieved 31 March 2010 . ^ "PEV Frequently Asked Questions" . Duke Energy . Archived from the original on 27 March 2012 . Retrieved 24 December 2010 . ^ "Electric road vehicles in the European Union" (PDF) . europa.eu . Archived (PDF) from the original on 14 February 2020 . Retrieved 24 October 2020 . ^ "Calculating the total cost of ownership for electric trucks" . Transport Dive . Retrieved 27 February 2021 . ^ "Electric trucking offers fleets ergonomic efficiency potential | Automotive World" . www.automotiveworld.com . 11 January 2021 . Retrieved 27 February 2021 . ^ Domonoske, Camila (17 March 2021). "From Amazon To FedEx, The Delivery Truck Is Going Electric" . National Public Radio . Retrieved 13 June 2021 . All major delivery companies are starting to replace their gas-powered fleets with electric or low-emission vehicles, a switch that companies say will boost their bottom lines, while also fighting climate change and urban pollution. UPS has placed an order for 10,000 electric delivery vehicles. Amazon is buying 100,000 from the start-up Rivian. DHL says zero-emission vehicles make up a fifth of its fleet, with more to come. And FedEx just pledged to replace 100% of its pickup and delivery fleet with battery-powered vehicles. ^ Joselow, Maxine (11 January 2020). "Delivery Vehicles Increasingly Choke Cities with Pollution" . Scientific American . Retrieved 13 June 2021 . Electric vehicles, delivery drones and rules on when delivery trucks can operate are some solutions proposed in a new report. The report provides 24 recommendations for policymakers and the private sector, including mandating that delivery vehicles are electric. The report notes that if policymakers care about sustainability, they may want to impose aggressive new electric vehicle regulations. ^ Gies, Erica (18 December 2017). "Electric Trucks Begin Reporting for Duty, Quietly and Without All the Fumes" . Inside Climate News . Retrieved 13 June 2021 . Replacing fleets of medium- and heavy-duty trucks can help cut greenhouse gas emissions and make cities quieter and cleaner. Because trucks need so much hauling power, they have eluded electrification until recently; a battery that could pull significant weight would itself be too hefty and too expensive. But now, improvements in battery technology are paying off, bringing down both size and cost. The number of hybrid-electric and electric trucks is set to grow almost 25 percent annually, from 1 percent of the market in 2017 to 7 percent in 2027, a jump from about 40,000 electric trucks worldwide this year to 371,000. ^ "-Maglev Technology Explained" . North American Maglev Transport Institute . 1 January 2011. Archived from the original on 27 July 2011. ^ a b "Germany launches world's first hydrogen-powered train" . The Guardian . Agence France-Presse. 17 September 2018. Archived from the original on 17 September 2018 . Retrieved 29 November 2018 . ^ "L'Occitanie, première région à commander des trains à hydrogène à Alstom" . France 3 Occitanie (in French). Archived from the original on 29 November 2018 . Retrieved 29 November 2018 . ^ "La constructora Alstom quiere ir por el 'tramo ecológico' del Tren Maya" . El Financiero (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 29 November 2018 . Retrieved 29 November 2018 . ^ "SNCF: Pépy envisage la fin des trains diesel et l'arrivée de l'hydrogène en 2035" [SNCF: Pépy plans the end of diesel trains and the arrival of hydrogen in 2035]. La Tribune (in French). Archived from the original on 29 November 2018 . Retrieved 29 November 2018 . ^ Gerrard, Bradley (14 May 2018). "French train giant Alstom set to make UK's first hydrogen fleet at British site" . The Telegraph . ISSN 0307-1235 . Archived from the original on 29 November 2018 . Retrieved 30 July 2025 . ^ "Oceanvolt – Complete Electric Motor Systems" . Oceanvolt . Archived from the original on 24 December 2012 . Retrieved 30 November 2012 . ^ Stensvold, Tore. " Lønnsomt å bytte ut 70 prosent av fergene med batteri- eller hybridferger Archived 5 January 2016 at the Wayback Machine " Teknisk Ukeblad , 14. August 2015. ^ "S-80: A Sub, for Spain, to Sail Out on the Main" . Defense Industry Daily . 15 December 2008. Archived from the original on 24 February 2010 . Retrieved 17 December 2009 . ^ "Ports of Auckland Sparky: The 200 Best Inventions of 2022" . Time . 10 November 2022 . Retrieved 26 March 2024 . ^ Mandra, Jasmina Ovcina (27 October 2023). "Electrifying Debut: HaiSea Wamis completes its 1st tanker escort with full electric power" . Offshore Energy . Retrieved 26 March 2024 . ^ "The little (electric) engine that could: The Port of San Diego unveils the nation's first all-electric tug boat" . San Diego Union-Tribune . 11 March 2024 . Retrieved 26 March 2024 . ^ "Contributions to Deep Space 1" . 14 April 2015. Archived from the original on 10 December 2004 . Retrieved 4 August 2016 . ^ Cybulski, Ronald J.; Shellhammer, Daniel M.; Lovell, Robert R.; Domino, Edward J.; Kotnik, Joseph T. (1965). "Results from SERT I Ion Rocket Flight Test" (PDF) . NASA . NASA-TN-D-2718. Archived (PDF) from the original on 12 November 2020 . Retrieved 12 November 2020 . ^ Lyons, Pete; "10 Best Ahead-of-Their-Time Machines", Car and Driver , Jan. 1988, p.78 ^ "Technologies of Broad Benefit: Power" . Archived from the original on 18 January 2017 . Retrieved 6 September 2018 . ^ "Soviet Union Lunar Rovers" . Archived from the original on 2 November 2018 . Retrieved 6 September 2018 . ^ Dobley, Arthur (2013). "1: Catalytic Batteries". In Suib, Steven (ed.). New and Future Developments in Catalysis: Batteries, Hydrogen Storage and Fuel Cells . Elsevier. p. 13. ISBN 978-0-444-53881-9 . Retrieved 29 October 2022 . ^ General Motors will add bidirectional charging to its Ultium-based EVs by Jonathan M. Gitlin, on Ars Technica, 8/8/2023. ^ Ziegler, Micah S.; Trancik, Jessika E. (2021). "Re-examining rates of lithium-ion battery technology improvement and cost decline" . Energy & Environmental Science . 14 (4): 1635– 1651. arXiv : 2007.13920 . Bibcode : 2021EnEnS..14.1635Z . doi : 10.1039/D0EE02681F . ISSN 1754-5692 . S2CID 220830992 . ^ Ritchie, Hannah (4 June 2021). "The price of batteries has declined by 97% in the last three decades" . Our World in Data . Retrieved 26 April 2022 . ^ Garcia, Erika; Johnston, Jill; McConnell, Rob; Palinkas, Lawrence; Eckel, Sandrah P. (1 April 2023). "California's early transition to electric vehicles: Observed health and air quality co-benefits" . Science of the Total Environment . 867 161761. Bibcode : 2023ScTEn.86761761G . doi : 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.161761 . ISSN 0048-9697 . PMC 10465173 . PMID 36739036 . S2CID 256572849 . ^ "Zeroing in on Healthy Air" . American Lung Association . 2022. ^ Xiong, Ying; Partha, Debatosh; Prime, Noah; Smith, Steven J; Mariscal, Noribeth; Salah, Halima; Huang, Yaoxian (1 October 2022). "Long-term trends of impacts of global gasoline and diesel emissions on ambient PM 2.5 and O 3 pollution and the related health burden for 2000–2015" . Environmental Research Letters . 17 (10): 104042. Bibcode : 2022ERL....17j4042X . doi : 10.1088/1748-9326/ac9422 . ISSN 1748-9326 . S2CID 252471791 . ^ Carey, John (17 January 2023). "The other benefit of electric vehicles" . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 120 (3) e2220923120. Bibcode : 2023PNAS..12020923C . doi : 10.1073/pnas.2220923120 . ISSN 0027-8424 . PMC 9934249 . PMID 36630449 . ^ "A global comparison of the life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions of combustion engine and electric passenger cars | International Council on Clean Transportation" . theicct.org . Archived from the original on 9 November 2021 . Retrieved 29 July 2021 . ^ Elliot Romano, Binod Koirala, Martin Rüdisüli, Sven Eggimann (2025), "Emission-Responsive Charging of Electric Cars and Carsharing to Improve the Security of Electricity Supply for Switzerland", Environmental Science & Technology , vol. 59, no. 29, pp. 15057– 15069, Bibcode : 2025EnST...5915057R , doi : 10.1021/acs.est.4c13270 , PMC 12312090 , PMID 40671645 {{ citation }} :  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) ^ Choma, Ernani F.; Evans, John S.; Hammitt, James K.; Gómez-Ibáñez, José A.; Spengler, John D. (1 November 2020). "Assessing the health impacts of electric vehicles through air pollution in the United States" . Environment International . 144 106015. Bibcode : 2020EnInt.14406015C . doi : 10.1016/j.envint.2020.106015 . ISSN 0160-4120 . PMID 32858467 . ^ Michalek; Chester; Jaramillo; Samaras; Shiau; Lave (2011). "Valuation of plug-in vehicle life cycle air emissions and oil displacement benefits" . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 108 (40): 16554– 16558. Bibcode : 2011PNAS..10816554M . doi : 10.1073/pnas.1104473108 . PMC 3189019 . PMID 21949359 . ^ Tessum; Hill; Marshall (2014). "Life cycle air quality impacts of conventional and alternative light-duty transportation in the United States" . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . 111 (52): 18490– 18495. Bibcode : 2014PNAS..11118490T . doi : 10.1073/pnas.1406853111 . PMC 4284558 . PMID 25512510 . ^ "Alternative Fuels Data Center: Electric Vehicle Benefits and Considerations" . afdc.energy.gov . Retrieved 27 February 2025 . ^ a b Alanazi, Fayez (January 2023). "Electric Vehicles: Benefits, Challenges, and Potential Solutions for Widespread Adaptation" . Applied Sciences . 13 (10): 6016. doi : 10.3390/app13106016 . ISSN 2076-3417 . ^ "Electric Cars Need Way Less Raw Materials Than ICE Vehicles" . InsideEVs . Archived from the original on 28 July 2021 . Retrieved 28 July 2021 . ^ a b "Electric car batteries need far less raw materials than fossil-fuel cars – study Archived 2 November 2021 at the Wayback Machine ". transportenvironment.org . Retrieved 1 November 2021. ^ Gössling, Stefan (3 July 2020). "Why cities need to take road space from cars – and how this could be done" . Journal of Urban Design . 25 (4): 443– 448. doi : 10.1080/13574809.2020.1727318 . ISSN 1357-4809 . ^ "e-bike carbon savings – how much and where? – CREDS" . 18 May 2020. Archived from the original on 13 April 2021 . Retrieved 13 April 2021 . ^ a b Agusdinata, Datu Buyung; Liu, Wenjuan; Eakin, Hallie; Romero, Hugo (27 November 2018). "Socio-environmental impacts of lithium mineral extraction: towards a research agenda" . Environmental Research Letters . 13 (12): 123001. Bibcode : 2018ERL....13l3001B . doi : 10.1088/1748-9326/aae9b1 . ISSN 1748-9326 . ^ Schöggl, Josef-Peter; Fritz, Morgane M.C.; Baumgartner, Rupert J. (September 2016). "Toward supply chain-wide sustainability assessment: a conceptual framework and an aggregation method to assess supply chain performance". Journal of Cleaner Production . 131 : 822– 835. Bibcode : 2016JCPro.131..822S . doi : 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.04.035 . ISSN 0959-6526 . ^ "Would More Electric Vehicles Be Good for the Environment?" . Competitive Enterprise Institute . 17 November 2020 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Månberger, André; Stenqvist, Björn (August 2018). "Global metal flows in the renewable energy transition: Exploring the effects of substitutes, technological mix and development" . Energy Policy . 119 : 226– 241. Bibcode : 2018EnPol.119..226M . doi : 10.1016/j.enpol.2018.04.056 . S2CID 52227957 . ^ "Move to net zero 'inevitably means more mining' " . BBC News . 24 May 2021. Archived from the original on 4 June 2021 . Retrieved 4 June 2021 . ^ Ewing, Jack; Krauss, Clifford (20 March 2023). "Falling Lithium Prices Are Making Electric Cars More Affordable" . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Retrieved 12 April 2023 . ^ "How Sustainable Are Typical Electric Vehicle Batteries?" . today.ucsd.edu . Retrieved 27 February 2025 . ^ Kelly, Jarod C.; Wang, Michael; Dai, Qiang; Winjobi, Olumide (1 November 2021). "Energy, greenhouse gas, and water life cycle analysis of lithium carbonate and lithium hydroxide monohydrate from brine and ore resources and their use in lithium ion battery cathodes and lithium ion batteries" . Resources, Conservation and Recycling . 174 105762. Bibcode : 2021RCR...17405762K . doi : 10.1016/j.resconrec.2021.105762 . ISSN 0921-3449 . OSTI 1868964 . ^ "How much CO2 is emitted by manufacturing batteries? | MIT Department of Mechanical Engineering" . meche.mit.edu . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "How 'modern-day slavery' in the Congo powers the rechargeable battery economy" . NPR . 1 February 2023. ^ Zainab (27 March 2024). "New report exposes the environmental and human costs of DRC's cobalt boom" . RAID . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Can the Democratic Republic of the Congo's mineral resources provide a pathway to peace?" . www.unep.org . 20 September 2022 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Rick, Mills (4 March 2024). "Indonesia and China killed the nickel market" . MINING.COM . ^ "Land grabs and vanishing forests: Are 'clean' electric vehicles to blame?" . Al Jazeera . 14 March 2024. ^ "Indonesia's massive metals build-out is felling the forest for batteries" . AP News . 15 July 2024. ^ "EU faces green dilemma in Indonesian nickel" . Deutsche Welle . 16 July 2024. ^ "Batteries and secure energy transitions" . Paris: IEA. 2024. ^ "Energy Technology Perspectives 2023 – Analysis" . IEA . 12 January 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ "Myths Shattered: The Truth About Electric Cars in Today's Auto Industry" . Greenpeace international . 18 October 2023 . Retrieved 21 November 2023 . ^ Buberger, Johannes; Kersten, Anton; Kuder, Manuel; Eckerle, Richard; Weyh, Thomas; Thiringer, Torbjörn (1 May 2022). "Total CO 2 -equivalent life-cycle emissions from commercially available passenger cars" . Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews . 159 112158. doi : 10.1016/j.rser.2022.112158 . ISSN 1364-0321 . S2CID 246758071 . ^ "EV Life Cycle Assessment Calculator – Data Tools" . IEA . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Koroma, Michael Samsu; Costa, Daniele; Philippot, Maeva; Cardellini, Giuseppe; Hosen, Md Sazzad; Coosemans, Thierry; Messagie, Maarten (1 July 2022). "Life cycle assessment of battery electric vehicles: Implications of future electricity mix and different battery end-of-life management" . Science of the Total Environment . 831 154859. Bibcode : 2022ScTEn.83154859K . doi : 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154859 . PMC 9171403 . PMID 35358517 . ^ "A global comparison of the life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions of combustion engine and electric passenger cars" . International Council on Clean Transportation . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "New IEA online tool compares lifecycle emissions from traditional and electric cars - News" . IEA . 5 June 2024 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Outlook for emissions reductions – Global EV Outlook 2024 – Analysis" . IEA . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Halper, Evan (5 April 2023). "Unleash the deep-sea robots? A quandary as EV makers hunt for metals" . Washington Post . ISSN 0190-8286 . Retrieved 9 April 2023 . ^ "EU Battery Regulation: Key Rules for Manufacturers & Recyclers" . go.ipoint-systems.com . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "France's eco-bonus shows how we can promote cleaner made-in-Europe EVs" . T&E . 8 October 2025 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "BriefCASE: Climate politics - France's carbon footprint incentive stirs debate on global EV supply chains" . S&P Global Mobility . 28 March 2024 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ a b c "Global EV Outlook 2023 – Analysis" . IEA . 26 April 2023 . Retrieved 5 July 2023 . ^ "Emissions from Electric Vehicles" . U.S. Department of Energy . Retrieved 8 May 2025 . ^ Lepetit, Yoann (October 2017). "Electric vehicle life cycle analysis and raw material availability" (PDF) . Transport & Environment . Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 February 2018 . Retrieved 22 February 2018 . ^ "Explaining Electric & Plug-In Hybrid Electric Vehicles | US EPA" . US EPA . 17 August 2015. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 8 June 2018 . ^ "Electric vehicle price is rising, but cost-per-mile is falling" . Ars Technica . Archived from the original on 4 June 2018 . Retrieved 8 June 2018 . ^ a b "Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) for Electric Vehicles (EV) vs Internal Combustion Engine Vehicles (ICE)" . nickelinstitute.org . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Electric vs. Gas Cars: Is It Cheaper to Drive an EV?" . www.nrdc.org . 21 July 2025 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Cheaper and Cleaner: Electric Vehicle Owners Save Thousands" . www.nrdc.org . 11 March 2024 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Korosec, Kirsten. "Panasonic boosts energy density, trims cobalt in new 2170 battery cell for Tesla" Archived 29 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine , July 30, 2020 ^ "Daimler deepens CATL alliance to build long-range, fast-charging EV batteries" Archived 23 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine , Reuters, August 5, 2020; and "Porsche: The perfect cell" Archived 25 November 2020 at the Wayback Machine , Automotive World , August 28, 2020 ^ Baum, Zachary J.; Bird, Robert; Yu, Xiang; Ma, Jia (14 October 2022). "Correction to "Lithium-Ion Battery Recycling─Overview of Techniques and Trends" " . ACS Energy Letters . 7 (10): 3268– 3269. Bibcode : 2022ACSEL...7.3268B . doi : 10.1021/acsenergylett.2c01888 . ISSN 2380-8195 . ^ Martinez-Laserna, E.; Gandiaga, I.; Sarasketa-Zabala, E.; Badeda, J.; Stroe, D. -I.; Swierczynski, M.; Goikoetxea, A. (1 October 2018). "Battery second life: Hype, hope or reality? A critical review of the state of the art" . Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews . 93 : 701– 718. Bibcode : 2018RSERv..93..701M . doi : 10.1016/j.rser.2018.04.035 . ISSN 1364-0321 . S2CID 115675123 . ^ Patel, Prachi. "Ion Storage Systems Says Its Ceramic Electrolyte Could Be a Gamechanger for Solid-State Batteries" , IEEE.org, February 21, 2020 ^ Lambert, Fred. "Tesla researchers show path to next-gen battery cell with breakthrough energy density" Archived 24 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine , Electrek, August 12, 2020 ^ "Research Shows EV Battery Replacements Very Rare | GreenCars" . www.greencars.com . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Alvarez, Simon (27 May 2024). "Study finds only 2.5% of EV batteries have been replaced to date" . TESLARATI . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Modern EV Batteries Rarely Fail: Study" . InsideEVs . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ ocatsaros (10 December 2024). "Lithium-Ion Battery Pack Prices See Largest Drop Since 2017, Falling to $115 per Kilowatt-Hour: BloombergNEF" . BloombergNEF . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Lithium battery oversupply, low prices seen through 2028 despite energy storage boom: CEA | Utility Dive" . www.utilitydive.com . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "The battery industry has entered a new phase – Analysis" . IEA . 5 March 2025 . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Winter EV Performance Study Reveals Cold Weather Reduces EV Range By Up To 39% | EV.com" . ev.com . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ "Here's How Much Range These Popular EVs Lose In The Cold" . InsideEVs . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Beedham, Matthew (3 February 2021). "What's a heat pump and why do EVs use them?" . TNW | Shift . Archived from the original on 28 July 2021 . Retrieved 28 July 2021 . ^ "Heat pumps in electric vehicles: What are they for? | Inquieto" . 26 July 2023 . Retrieved 5 November 2023 . ^ a b Fire Protection Materials for EV Batteries 2024–2034: Markets, Trends, and Forecasts . 31 January 2024. ISBN 978-1-83570-016-7 . ^ Searles, Michael (22 May 2024). "Electric cars 'hit pedestrians at twice the rate of petrol or diesel vehicles' " . The Telegraph . ISSN 0307-1235 . Archived from the original on 14 June 2024 . Retrieved 13 June 2024 . ^ Nick Carey; Josie Kao and Louise Heavens. (5 July 2023). "EV batteries remain major challenge for insurers – UK's Thatcham". Reuters website Retrieved 5 July 2023. ^ Linja-aho, Vesa (September 2024). "Assessing the Electrical Risks in Electric Vehicle Repair: Results for use in Developing Safe Working Practices and Regulations". IEEE Industry Applications Magazine . 30 (5): 32– 41. Bibcode : 2024IIAM...30e..32L . doi : 10.1109/MIAS.2024.3387142 . ISSN 1077-2618 . ^ Nick Carey. (27 June 2023). "UK firm Metis touts battery sensor that could ease EV scrappage problem". Reuters website Retrieved 5 July 2023. ^ Mitchell, Gordon; Dorling, Danny (2003). "An Environmental Justice Analysis of British Air Quality". Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space . 35 (5): 909– 929. Bibcode : 2003EnPlA..35..909M . doi : 10.1068/a35240 . ^ Barnes, Joanna H.; Chatterton, Tim J.; Longhurst, James W.S. (August 2019). "Emissions vs exposure: Increasing injustice from road traffic-related air pollution in the United Kingdom" . Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment . 73 : 56– 66. Bibcode : 2019TRPD...73...56B . doi : 10.1016/j.trd.2019.05.012 . S2CID 197455092 . ^ "Kan de wereld de elektrische auto wel aan?" (in Dutch) . Retrieved 25 April 2025 . ^ Elektrische auto belemmert duurzame mobiliteit Martens, C.J.C.M. 2009, Article / Letter to editor (Geografie. Vaktijdschrift voor Geografen, 18, 8, (2009), pp. 14–15) https://repository.ubn.ru.nl/bitstream/handle/2066/78366/78366.pdf?sequence=1 ^ "EESL to procure 10,000 Electric Vehicles from TATA Motors" . Press Information Bureau . 29 September 2017. Archived from the original on 8 February 2018 . Retrieved 7 February 2018 . ^ Balachandran, Manu (6 October 2017). "As India revs up its grand electric vehicles plan, Tata and Mahindra are in the driver's seat" . Quartz . Archived from the original on 8 February 2018 . Retrieved 7 February 2018 . ^ Azeez, Walé (12 May 2021). "5 things to know about the future of electric vehicles" . World Economic Forum . Archived from the original on 16 June 2021 . Retrieved 7 June 2021 . ^ "Alternative Fuels Data Center: Electric Vehicle Benefits and Considerations" . afdc.energy.gov . Retrieved 20 February 2025 . ^ US EPA, OAR (14 May 2021). "Electric Vehicle Myths" . United States Environmental Protection Agency . Retrieved 20 February 2025 . ^ "Accelerating the Transition to Electric School Buses" . U.S. PIRG Education Fund . 1 February 2021. Archived from the original on 29 July 2021 . Retrieved 29 July 2021 . ^ Barbecho Bautista, Pablo; Lemus Cárdenas, Leticia; Urquiza Aguiar, Luis; Aguilar Igartua, Mónica (2019). "A traffic-aware electric vehicle charging management system for smart cities". Vehicular Communications . 20 100188. doi : 10.1016/j.vehcom.2019.100188 . hdl : 2117/172770 . S2CID 204080912 . ^ Fernandez Pallarés, Victor; Cebollada, Juan Carlos Guerri; Martínez, Alicia Roca (2019). "Interoperability network model for traffic forecast and full electric vehicles power supply management within the smart city". Ad Hoc Networks . 93 101929. doi : 10.1016/j.adhoc.2019.101929 . hdl : 10251/144319 . S2CID 196184613 . ^ Diouf, Boucar (5 September 2025). "Is the Grid Ready for the Electric Vehicle Transition?" . Energies . 18 (17): 4730. doi : 10.3390/en18174730 . ISSN 1996-1073 . ^ "Alternative Fuels Data Center: Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Trends" . afdc.energy.gov . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ a b "Trends in charging infrastructure – Global EV Outlook 2023 – Analysis" . IEA . Retrieved 14 October 2025 . ^ Liasi, Sahand Ghaseminejad; Golkar, Masoud Aliakbar (2017). "Electric vehicles connection to microgrid effects on peak demand with and without demand response". 2017 Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering (ICEE) . pp. 1272– 1277. doi : 10.1109/IranianCEE.2017.7985237 . ISBN 978-1-5090-5963-8 . S2CID 22071272 . ^ "It's not just cars driving the EV revolution in emerging markets" . www.schroders.com . Retrieved 12 April 2023 . Beyond grid stabilisation benefits, smart charging of EVs, using differentiated electricity tariffs in off-peak hours, may also mitigate the pressure on electricity demand. That's because vehicles can be charged during the day, when demand is lower and renewables generation is available. ^ Shafie-khah, Miadreza; Heydarian-Forushani, Ehsan; Osorio, Gerardo J.; Gil, Fabio A. S.; Aghaei, Jamshid; Barani, Mostafa; Catalao, Joao P. S. (November 2016). "Optimal Behavior of Electric Vehicle Parking Lots as Demand Response Aggregation Agents". IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid . 7 (6): 2654– 2665. Bibcode : 2016ITSG....7.2654S . doi : 10.1109/TSG.2015.2496796 . ISSN 1949-3053 . S2CID 715959 . ^ "It's not just cars driving the EV revolution in emerging markets" . www.schroders.com . Retrieved 12 April 2023 . Intermittency from solar or wind technologies can put creating voltage and frequency variations. Batteries can charge and discharge to stabilise the grid in such instances. The batteries of electric vehicles, e-buses or electric two-wheelers, while connected to the grid, could therefore play a role in protecting a grid's stability. ^ "Engines and Gas Turbines | Claverton Group" . Claverton-energy.com. 18 November 2008. Archived from the original on 6 September 2009 . Retrieved 19 September 2009 . ^ National Grid's use of Emergency. Diesel Standby Generator's in dealing with grid intermittency and variability. Potential Contribution in assisting renewables Archived 17 February 2010 at the Wayback Machine , David Andrews, Senior Technical Consultant, Biwater Energy, A talk originally given by as the Energy Manager at Wessex Water at an Open University Conference on Intermittency, 24 January 2006 ^ Huang, Chun; Zhang, Jin; Young, Neil P.; Snaith, Henry J.; Grant, Patrick S. (10 May 2016). "Solid-state supercapacitors with rationally designed heterogeneous electrodes fabricated by large area spray processing for wearable energy storage applications" . Scientific Reports . 6 (1) 25684. Bibcode : 2016NatSR...625684H . doi : 10.1038/srep25684 . ISSN 2045-2322 . PMC 4861981 . PMID 27161379 . ^ Ogata, Chikako; Kurogi, Ruriko; Awaya, Keisuke; Hatakeyama, Kazuto; Taniguchi, Takaaki; Koinuma, Michio; Matsumoto, Yasumichi (9 August 2017). "All-Graphene Oxide Flexible Solid-State Supercapacitors with Enhanced Electrochemical Performance". ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces . 9 (31): 26151– 26160. Bibcode : 2017AAMI....926151O . doi : 10.1021/acsami.7b04180 . ISSN 1944-8244 . PMID 28715632 . ^ Sallaz, Valentin; Bedjaoui, Messaoud; Poulet, Sylvain; Gauthier, Nicolas; Prabhakaran, Sneka; Perez, Emeric; Salvador, Violaine; Pillonnet, Gaël; Voiron, Frédéric; Oukassi, Sami (6 February 2025). "Dual Storage Mechanism in Nanoscale Solid-State Lithium-Ion Supercapacitors". ACS Electrochemistry . 1 (2): 164– 174. doi : 10.1021/acselectrochem.4c00022 . ^ Romanitan, Cosmin; Varasteanu, Pericle; Mihalache, Iuliana; Culita, Daniela; Somacescu, Simona; Pascu, Razvan; Tanasa, Eugenia; Eremia, Sandra A. V.; Boldeiu, Adina; Simion, Monica; Radoi, Antonio; Kusko, Mihaela (25 June 2018). "High-performance solid state supercapacitors assembling graphene interconnected networks in porous silicon electrode by electrochemical methods using 2,6-dihydroxynaphthalen" . Scientific Reports . 8 (1): 9654. Bibcode : 2018NatSR...8.9654R . doi : 10.1038/s41598-018-28049-x . ISSN 2045-2322 . PMC 6018509 . PMID 29942035 . ^ Wang, Sen; Wu, Zhong-Shuai; Zhou, Feng; Shi, Xiaoyu; Zheng, Shuanghao; Qin, Jieqiong; Xiao, Han; Sun, Chenglin; Bao, Xinhe (26 March 2018). "All-solid-state high-energy planar hybrid micro-supercapacitors based on 2D VN nanosheets and Co(OH)2 nanoflowers" . npj 2D Materials and Applications . 2 (1) 7: 1– 8. doi : 10.1038/s41699-018-0052-8 . ISSN 2397-7132 . ^ Chaichi, Ardalan; Venugopalan, Gokul; Devireddy, Ram; Arges, Christopher; Gartia, Manas Ranjan (22 June 2020). "A Solid-State and Flexible Supercapacitor That Operates across a Wide Temperature Range". ACS Applied Energy Materials . 3 (6): 5693– 5704. Bibcode : 2020ACSAE...3.5693C . doi : 10.1021/acsaem.0c00636 . ^ Pourzolfaghar, Hamed; Wang, Po-Yuan; Jiang, Xin-Yu; Kositsarakhom, Supapitch; Jirasupcharoen, Wasitpol; Suwantri, Chinatip; Jyothi, Divya; Prabhakaran, Keerthana; Li, Yuan-Yao (15 November 2024). "Emerging trends and innovations in all-solid-state lithium batteries: A comprehensive review" . Chemical Engineering Journal . 500 157394. Bibcode : 2024ChEnJ.50057394P . doi : 10.1016/j.cej.2024.157394 . ISSN 1385-8947 . ^ "Solid-State Battery Roadmap 2035+" (PDF) . Fraunhofer ISI . Fraunhofer Institute for Systems and Innovation Research. 2022 . Retrieved 19 July 2025 . ^ Wu, Dengxu; Wu, Fan (1 April 2023). "Toward better batteries: Solid-state battery roadmap 2035+" . ETransportation . 16 100224. doi : 10.1016/j.etran.2022.100224 . ISSN 2590-1168 . ^ Alkhalidi, Ammar; Khawaja, Mohamad K.; Ismail, Sundos Mohammad (1 September 2024). "Solid-state batteries, their future in the energy storage and electric vehicles market" . Science Talks . 11 100382. doi : 10.1016/j.sctalk.2024.100382 . ISSN 2772-5693 . ^ "Mercedes Unveils Semi-Solid-State EV Batteries - IEEE Spectrum" . spectrum.ieee.org . Retrieved 19 July 2025 . ^ "Solid-State Batteries Could Face "Production Hell" - IEEE Spectrum" . spectrum.ieee.org . Retrieved 19 July 2025 . ^ "Toyota Teases Solid-State Batteries in 2027 - IEEE Spectrum" . spectrum.ieee.org . Retrieved 19 July 2025 . ^ Sun, Yang-Kook (9 October 2020). "Promising All-Solid-State Batteries for Future Electric Vehicles". ACS Energy Letters . 5 (10): 3221– 3223. Bibcode : 2020ACSEL...5.3221S . doi : 10.1021/acsenergylett.0c01977 . ^ Shi, Kuangyi; Guan, Bin; Zhuang, Zhongqi; Chen, Junyan; Chen, Yujun; Ma, Zeren; Zhu, Chenyu; Hu, Xuehan; Zhao, Sikai; Dang, Hongtao; Guo, Jiangfeng; Chen, Lei; Shu, Kaiyou; Li, Yuan; Guo, Zelong (6 June 2024). "Recent Progress and Prospects on Sodium-Ion Battery and All-Solid-State Sodium Battery: A Promising Choice of Future Batteries for Energy Storage". Energy & Fuels . 38 (11): 9280– 9319. Bibcode : 2024EnFue..38.9280S . doi : 10.1021/acs.energyfuels.4c00980 . ISSN 0887-0624 . ^ Horn, Michael; MacLeod, Jennifer; Liu, Meinan; Webb, Jeremy; Motta, Nunzio (March 2019). "Supercapacitors: A new source of power for electric cars?" (PDF) . Economic Analysis and Policy . 61 : 93– 103. doi : 10.1016/j.eap.2018.08.003 . S2CID 187458469 . ^ Francisco J. Márquez-Fernández (20 May 2019), Power conversion challenges with an all-electric land transport system (PDF) , Swedish Electromobility Centre ^ D Bateman; et al. (8 October 2018), Electric Road Systems: a solution for the future (PDF) , TRL , archived from the original (PDF) on 3 August 2020 , retrieved 19 November 2019 ^ Kwak Yeon-soo (24 March 2019). "ICT minister nominee accused of wasting research money" . The Korea Times . ^ Ed Targett (20 September 2016), Who Killed the Electric Highway? ^ Steven Pinkerton-Clark (22 June 2022), DynaCoV - Dynamic Charging of Vehicles - Project closedown report (PDF) ^ Björn Hasselgren (9 October 2019), Swedish ERS - program background, current analysis phase and plans ahead (PDF) , Swedish Transport Administration [ permanent dead link ] ^ "Vi avbryter upphandlingen för Sverige första permanenta elväg" , Trafikverket , 28 August 2023 ^ Trafikverket (2 December 2024), Arbetet med Sveriges första permanenta elväg pausas ^ Kenneth Natanaelsson (29 November 2024), Planeringsunderlag elväg (PDF) , Trafikverket ^ Trafikverket (28 September 2021). "Arbetet med Sveriges första permanenta elväg pausas" . Trafikverket (in Swedish) . Retrieved 13 September 2025 . ^ Wendt, Andreas; Arnold, Maximilian; Ezer, Oren; Hoppe, Axel; Kanesaki, Masaki; Kneidl, Maximilian; Kurpat, Thorsten; Kühl, Alexander; Maemura, Masato; Masuch, Michael; Pöllauer, Alexander; Schmidt, Robert; Sunderlin, Håkan; Yamaguchi, Nobuhisa (2024). "Wireless Electric Road Systems – Technology Readiness and Recent Developments". 2024 IEEE Wireless Power Technology Conference and Expo (WPTCE) . pp. 177– 182. doi : 10.1109/WPTCE59894.2024.10557264 . ISBN 979-8-3503-4913-9 . ^ Bilanz E-Highway: Lastwagen können Hälfte an CO 2 sparen , DPA, 1 March 2024 ^ Adrian Mahler (12 April 2024), "Verlängerung der Laufzeit wird das eWayBW-Pilotprojekt nicht retten" , BNN.DE ^ Adrian Mahler (18 March 2024), "Kritik der FDP: eWayBW-Oberleitung verhindert Landung von Rettungshelikopter auf B462" , BNN.DE ^ Marc Fressoz (9 May 2024), "Les autoroutiers divisés sur les solutions à mettre en place pour faire rouler des camions électriques" , L'USINENOUVELLE.com ^ Laurent Miguet (28 April 2022), "Sur les routes de la mobilité électrique" , Le Moniteur ^ Ulrich, Lawrence. "Rimac Nevera EV Sets 23 World Speed Records: Zero to 400 kilometers per hour and back again in under 30 seconds was just one of them" . IEEE Spectrum. ^ Doll, Scooter (17 May 2023). "Rimac Nevera electric hypercar sets 23 records in single day, including fastest 0–249 mph time" . Electrek . ^ Addow, Amina (21 December 2022). "Electric car goes from 0 to 100 km/h in 1.461 seconds" . Guinness World Records . ^ "interestingengineering.com" . November 2021. ^ Holl, Maximilian (5 July 2019). "Tesla Model 3 Breaks World EV Distance Record — 2,781 km (1,728 mi) Travelled in 24 Hours" . CleanTechnica . Retrieved 15 May 2022 . ^ "Greatest distance by electric vehicle, single charge (non-solar)" . Guinness World Records . 16 October 2017 . Retrieved 15 May 2022 . ^ Jamieson, Craig (28 February 2023). "This solar-powered EV is a world-record-breaking speed machine*" . BBC Top Gear . BBC Studios. ^ "Harley-Davidson's LiveWire EV | GreenCars" . www.greencars.com . Retrieved 15 May 2022 . ^ Toll, Micah (29 August 2020). "Believe it or not, this electric plane is set to break 7 world records in one trip" . Electrek . Retrieved 15 May 2022 . Further reading [ edit ] Boulanger, A G; Chu, A C; Maxx, S; Waltz, D L (2011). "Vehicle Electrification: Status and Issues". Proceedings of the IEEE . 99 (6): 1116– 1138. doi : 10.1109/JPROC.2011.2112750 . Ma, Shao-Chao; Xu, Jin-Hua; Fan, Ying (2022). "Characteristics and key trends of global electric vehicle technology development: A multi-method patent analysis". Journal of Cleaner Production . 338 130502. Bibcode : 2022JCPro.33830502M . doi : 10.1016/j.jclepro.2022.130502 . International Energy Agency , Global EV Outlook 2022 . Nanaki, Evanthia A. (2021). "Chapter 2 - Electric vehicles" . Electric Vehicles for Smart Cities: Trends, Challenges, and Opportunities . Elsevier . pp. 13– 49. doi : 10.1016/B978-0-12-815801-2.00006-X . ISBN 978-0-12-815801-2 . Haghani, Milad; Sprei, Frances; Kazemzadeh, Khashayar; Shahhoseini, Zahra; Aghaei, Jamshid (2023). "Trends in electric vehicles research" . Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment . 123 103881. Bibcode : 2023TRPD..12303881H . doi : 10.1016/j.trd.2023.103881 . Alonso-Cepeda, Antonio; Villena-Ruiz, Raquel; Honrubia-Escribano, Andrés; Gómez-Lázaro, Emilio (2024). "A Review on Electric Vehicles for Holistic Robust Integration in Cities: History, Legislation, Meta-Analysis of Technology and Grid Impact" . Applied Sciences . 14 (16): 7147. doi : 10.3390/app14167147 . External links [ edit ] Media related to Electrically powered vehicles at Wikimedia Commons v t e Motor fuels Fuel types Gasoline/petrol Diesel Biodiesel Biogasoline Lead Replacement Petrol Electricity Kerosene Compressed natural gas Hydrogen Ethanol Butanol fuel Racing fuel (Tetraethyllead) Fuel additives Butyl rubber Butylated hydroxytoluene 1,2-Dibromoethane 1,2-Dichloroethane Dimethyl methylphosphonate 2,4-Dimethyl-6-tert-butylphenol Dinonylnaphthylsulfonic acid 2,6-Di-tert-butylphenol Ecalene Ethylenediamine Metal deactivator Methyl tert-butyl ether Nitromethane Tetraethyllead Tetranitromethane Fluids Motor oil Antifreeze Automatic transmission fluid Brake fluid Gear oil Windshield washer fluid Retail Fuel card MTBE controversy Pay at the pump v t e Car design Classification By size Micro Kei Subcompact / Supermini Family Compact Mid-size Full-size Custom Baja Bug Hot rod Lead sled Lowrider Sandrail T-bucket Luxury Compact executive Executive Personal Minivan / MPV Compact Leisure Mini SUV Compact Crossover (CUV) Mini Coupe SUV Sports Grand tourer Hot hatch Muscle Pony Sport compact Sports sedan Super Go-kart Other Antique Classic Economy Ute Van Vintage car EU A-segment B-segment C-segment D-segment E-segment F-segment J-segment M-segment S-segment Body styles 2+2 Baquet Barchetta Berlinetta Brougham Cabrio coach Cab over Cabriolet / Convertible / Drophead coupe Coupe Coupé de Ville / Sedanca de Ville Coupé utility Fastback Hardtop Hatchback Kammback Landaulet Liftback Limousine Microvan Minibus Multi-stop truck Notchback Panel van Phaeton Pickup truck Quad coupé Retractable hardtop Roadster / Spider / Spyder Runabout Saloon / Sedan Sedan delivery/Panel van Shooting brake Station wagon Targa top Torpedo Touring Town (Coupé de Ville) T-top Vis-à-vis Specialized vehicles All-terrain vehicle Amphibious Connected Driverless (autonomous) Dune buggy Go-kart Gyrocar Pedal car Personal rapid transit Police car Flying car Taxicab Tow truck Voiturette Propulsion Alternative fuel Autogas Biodiesel Biofuel Biogasoline Biogas Compressed natural gas Diesel Electric ( battery NEV ) Ethanol ( E85 ) Fossil fuel Fuel cell Fuel gas Natural gas Gasoline / petrol ( direct injection ) Homogeneous charge compression ignition Hybrid ( plug-in ) Hydrogen Internal combustion Liquid nitrogen Liquified petroleum gas Steam Drive wheels Front-wheel Rear-wheel Two-wheel Four-wheel Six-wheel Eight-wheel Ten-wheel Twelve-wheel Engine position Front Mid Rear Layout (engine / drive) Front-front Front mid-front Rear-front Front-rear Rear mid-rear Rear-rear Front-four-wheel Mid-four-wheel Rear-four-wheel Dual motor-four-wheel Individual wheel drive Engine configuration ( internal combustion ) Boxer Flat Four-stroke H-block Reciprocating Single-cylinder Straight Two-stroke V (Vee) W engine Wankel Portal Category Template:EC car classification v t e Alternative fuel vehicles Electric Battery and motor Battery-electric locomotive Battery electric multiple unit Electric aircraft Electric bicycle Pedelec Electric boat Electric bus Battery electric bus Electric car List Electric truck Electric platform truck Battery electric vehicle Electric motorcycles and scooters Electric kick scooter Fuel cell vehicle Gyro flywheel locomotive Hybrid electric vehicle Hybrid train Neighborhood electric vehicle Plug-in electric vehicle List Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle Fuel cell Fuel cell vehicle Solar power Solar vehicle Solar-powered aircraft boats Solar bus Solar car List of prototypes Electric aircraft Electric boat Compressed-air Compressed-air car Compressed-air vehicle Tesla turbine Biofuel ( internal combustion ) Alcohol fuel Biodiesel Biogas Butanol fuel Biogasoline Common ethanol fuel mixtures E85 Ethanol fuel Flexible-fuel vehicle Methanol economy Methanol fuel Wood gas Hydrogen Fuel cell vehicle Hydrogen economy Hydrogen-powered aircraft Hydrogen-powered ship Hydrogen train Hydrogen vehicle Hydrogen internal combustion engine vehicle Others Autogas Hybrid electric vehicle Liquid nitrogen vehicle Natural gas vehicle Propane Multiple-fuel Bi-fuel vehicle Flexible-fuel vehicle Hybrid electric vehicle Hybrid train Hybrid vehicle Multifuel Plug-in hybrid Solar vehicle Solar car Solar bus Electric aircraft Electric boat Human power Electric bicycle Pedelec Documentaries Who Killed the Electric Car? What Is the Electric Car? Revenge of the Electric Car See also Maglev Ram air turbine Vactrain Wave power ship Windmill ship Wind-powered vehicle Zero-emissions vehicle v t e Powertrain Part of the Automobile series Automotive engine Diesel engine Electric Fuel cell Hybrid ( Plug-in hybrid ) Internal combustion engine Petrol engine Steam engine Transmission Automatic transmission Chain drive Direct-drive Clutch Constant-velocity joint Continuously variable transmission Coupling Differential Direct-shift gearbox Drive shaft Dual-clutch transmission Drive wheel Automated manual transmission Electrorheological clutch Epicyclic gearing Fluid coupling Friction drive Gearshift Giubo Hotchkiss drive Limited-slip differential Locking differential Manual transmission Manumatic Parking pawl Park-by-wire Preselector gearbox Semi-automatic transmission Shift-by-wire Torque converter Transaxle Transfer box Transmission control unit Universal joint Wheels and tires Wheel hub assembly Wheel Rim Alloy wheel Hubcap Tire Off-road Racing slick Radial Rain Run-flat Snow Spare Tubeless Hybrid Electric motor Hybrid vehicle drivetrain Electric generator Alternator Portal Category v t e Electric vehicles List of battery electric vehicles Vehicle Electric aircraft Hybrid Solar Ion List Electric car Solar car Use by country Electric boat boats List of prototypes Electric bicycle Pedelec Electric trike Electric bus Solar bus Electric locomotive Railway electrification List Trams Electric motorcycles and scooters E-scooter Skateboard Unicycle Self-balancing scooter Electric truck Source Hybrid electric vehicle Plug-in electric vehicle Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle Battery electric vehicle Fuel cell electric vehicle Solar vehicle Charging Charging station ( network ) Tesla Supercharger Vehicle-to-grid Connectors AC Type 1 Type 2 (Mennekes) Type 3 (Scame) DC AA (CHAdeMO) BB (GB/T) ChaoJi EE/FF (CCS Combo 1/2) MCS AC/DC NACS Standards GB/T 20234 IEC 61851 IEC 62196 IEC 63110 ISO 15118 SAE J1772 SAE J3068 SAE J3105 SAE J3400 Practices dump charging Moving field inductive power transfer History timeline All-electric range Battery swapping Wheel hub motor Regenerative braking Overhead line WEVA v t e Environmental technology General Appropriate technology Clean technology Climate smart agriculture Environmental design Environmental impact assessment Eco-innovation Ecotechnology Electric vehicle Energy recycling Environmental design Environmental impact assessment Environmental impact design Green building Green vehicle Environmentally healthy community design Public interest design Sustainability Sustainability science Sustainable ( agriculture architecture design development food systems industries procurement refurbishment technology transport ) Pollution Air pollution ( control dispersion modeling ) Industrial ecology Solid waste treatment Waste management Water ( agricultural wastewater treatment industrial wastewater treatment sewage treatment waste-water treatment technologies water purification ) Sustainable energy Efficient energy use Electrification Energy development Energy recovery Fuel ( alternative fuel biofuel carbon-neutral fuel hydrogen technologies ) List of energy storage projects Renewable energy commercialization transition Sector coupling Power-to-X Power-to-heat Power-to-gas Sustainable lighting Transportation ( electric vehicle hybrid vehicle ) Conservation Building ( green insulation natural sustainable architecture New Urbanism New Classical ) Conservation biology Ecoforestry Efficient energy use Energy conservation Energy recovery Energy recycling Environmental movement Environmental remediation Glass in green buildings Green computing Heat recovery ventilation High-performance buildings Land rehabilitation Nature conservation Permaculture Recycling Water heat recycling Authority control databases National United States France BnF data Czech Republic Israel Other NARA Yale LUX Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electric_vehicle&oldid=1329329020 " Categories : Electric vehicles Sustainable transport 19th-century introductions Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Webarchive template wayback links CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list CS1 Dutch-language sources (nl) All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2025 Articles with permanently dead external links CS1 Swedish-language sources (sv) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Duplicate articles Use dmy dates from May 2025 Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Articles with excerpts All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from April 2023 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2020 Commons category link is on Wikidata