https://www.motortrend.com/news/autonomous-driving-mode-lighting-changes

Autonomous-Driving Mode Lighting Gets Closer to Being Blue-Green Lit Autonomous-Driving Mode Lighting Gets Closer to Being Blue-Green Lit The SAE's marker lamp regulation is designed to signal to other drivers and pedestrians when a car is robo-driving. Frank Markus Writer Manufacturer Photographer Dec 24, 2025 “You can use any color lighting on the front of a car, as long as it's amber or white." That's been the understanding for the better part of a century, but by approving SAE J3134_202512: Automated Driving System (ADS) Marker Lamp, the standards folks at the Society of Automotive Engineers have taken the first step toward reversing that commandment and introducing blue-green lighting that allows automated driving systems (ADS) to signal when they’re robo-driving. Road users depend a lot on subtle communication. Pedestrians might establish eye contact with a driver before crossing in front of their car. Drivers arriving at a four-way stop simultaneously often signal who should go first. The calculus changes when cars drive themselves. Road users in the areas where Waymo’s Waymo One cars are in service have learned that heavily festooned white Jaguar iPaces are always autonomous and hence never provide such signaling. But how can anyone tell if a Model Y or other Tesla, for example, A) paid for the full-self-driving hardware and B) is currently testing Version 14 beta software that allows the car to drive itself from start to finish on all sorts of roadways? A driver who’s sitting passively in a car that’s driving itself may not be able to make appropriate eye contact or grant permission to proceed. This is the point of J3134. Equipping cars that offer autonomous driving modes with blue-green marker lighting will signal to drivers that the person behind the wheel isn’t making the driving decisions at the moment and hence may not be capable of providing the communication an active driver would. Mercedes has been an early champion of this concept and has been testing blue-green lighting elements in the head and tail lamps of its autonomous-capable cars, as well as the “side repeater” lamps on the side-view mirrors of Level 3 self-driving S-Class and EQS cars in Nevada and California . (Cadillac also showed off the lighting as part of a preview of a hands-free technology in a future Escalade IQ , pictured.) An earlier J3134 standard covered front marker lighting, but this one considers the full front/side/rear blue-green indicators to better align with what European UNECE and Chinese regulators are considering. The cost of implementing this concept should be minimal, as the blue-green indication can be added into existing LED lamps or light-pipe units that already indicate amber and/or red. But note that this new color typically cannot be “programmed” into the same red/amber light chips—it typically requires an indium-gallium-nitride (InGaN) unit working in the 500nm scale. This is a voluntary consensus standard, not the law of the land. The NHTSA may or may not decide to add blue-green light to the list of approved colors for use in the front of a car, but it may not feel the need to—unless some manufacturers decide to start implementing other colors. So get ready for blue-green marker lights to start letting you know when you can blame a driver or a computer chip for the driving behavior you’re observing … Frank Markus I started critiquing cars at age 5 by bumming rides home from church in other parishioners’ new cars. At 16 I started running parts for an Oldsmobile dealership and got hooked on the car biz. Engineering seemed the best way to make a living in it, so with two mechanical engineering degrees I joined Chrysler to work on the Neon, LH cars, and 2nd-gen minivans. Then a friend mentioned an opening for a technical editor at another car magazine, and I did the car-biz equivalent of running off to join the circus. I loved that job too until the phone rang again with what turned out to be an even better opportunity with Motor Trend. It’s nearly impossible to imagine an even better job, but I still answer the phone… Read More Share You May Also Like