https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filter_paper

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Semi-permeable paper barrier Filter paper is a semi-permeable paper barrier placed perpendicular to a liquid or air flow. It is used to separate fine solid particles from liquids or gases. Filter paper: used for separating solid from liquid. The raw materials are typically different paper pulps . The pulp may be made from softwood , hardwood , fiber crops , or mineral fibers . Properties [ edit ] Filter paper has various properties. The important parameters are wet strength , porosity , particle retention , volumetric flow rate , compatibility, efficiency and capacity. There are two mechanisms of filtration with paper; volume, and surface. By volume filtration, the particles are caught in the bulk of the filter paper. By surface filtration, the particles are caught on the paper surface. Filter paper is mostly used because of the ability of a small piece of filter paper to absorb a significant volume of liquid. Manufacture [ edit ] Main article: Paper machine The raw materials are different paper pulps . The pulp may be from softwood , hardwood , fiber crops , mineral fibers . For high quality filters, dissolving pulp and mercerised pulp are used. Most filter papers are made using small paper machines . For laboratory filters, the machines may be as small as 50 cm in width. The paper is often crêped to improve porosity. The filter papers may also be treated with reagents or impregnation to get the right properties. Types [ edit ] Air filters [ edit ] Air filter paper in an auto engine Main article: Air filter The main application for air filters are combustion air to engines . The filter papers are transformed into filter cartridges, which then is fitted to a holder. The construction of the cartridges mostly requires that the paper is stiff enough to be self-supporting. A paper for air filters needs to be very porous and have a weight of 100–200 g/m 2 . Normally particularly long fibrous pulp that is mercerised is used to get these properties. The paper is normally impregnated to improve the resistance to moisture . [ 1 ] : 113 Some heavy duty qualities are made to be rinsed and thereby extend the life of the filter. Coffee and tea [ edit ] Main articles: Coffee filter and Tea bag Historically, blotting paper or cloth were used to extract filter coffee. Modern coffee filters of paper are made from about 100 g/m 2 crêped paper . The crêping allows the coffee to flow freely between the filter and the filtration funnel . [ 2 ] The raw materials ( pulp ) for the filter paper are coarse long fiber , often from fast growing trees. For example, Melitta uses up to 60% of bambus in their filters since 1998. [ 3 ] Both bleached and unbleached qualities are made. [ 1 ] : 114 Coffee filters are made in different shapes and sizes to fit into different holders.
Most notable are the (paper) coffee filter systems introduced by Melitta (1908, 1932, 1936, 1965), Chemex (1941) and Hario (2004). Important parameters are strength, compatibility, efficiency and capacity. Tea bags also work as a kind of paper filter. They are made from abacá fibers , a very thin and long fiber manilla hemp. Often the paper is augmented with a minor portion of synthetic fibers . The bag paper is very porous and thin and has high wet strength . [ 1 ] : 114 Fuel filters [ edit ] Main article: Fuel filter The paper used for fuel filters is a crêped paper with controlled porosity, which is pleated and wound to cartridges. The raw material for filter paper used in fuel filters are made of a mixture of hardwood and softwood fibres. The basis weight of the paper is 50–80 g/m 2 . [ 1 ] : 114 Horizontal plate filters [ edit ] Horizontal plate filter paper is commonly utilized in industrial processing. Filter paper typically is designed to fit the manufacturers specifications. Absolute micron retention can range from 1–100 microns but Diatomaceous earth is commonly used with filter paper to obtain sub-micron filtration. Activated carbon or other filter aids can be used with the filter paper to form a filter cake to achieve specific results. Filter paper can be impregnated with DE or activated carbon. Oil filters [ edit ] Oil filter cut-away with paper visible inside Main article: Oil filter Engine oil is filtered to remove impurities. Filtration of oil is normally done with volume filtration. Filter papers for lubrication oils are impregnated to resist high temperatures. [ 1 ] : 113 Laboratory-grade paper filters [ edit ] See also: Filtration A scan of Whatman Filter Paper 4 Qualitative taken at 840 magnifications under a scanning electron microscope . Filter papers are widely used in laboratory experiments across many different fields, from biology to chemistry. The type of filter used will differ according to the purpose of the procedure and the chemicals involved. Generally, filter papers are used with laboratory techniques such as gravity or vacuum filtration. [ 4 ] Historically, a type of soft, porous paper called charta emporetica was used in pharmacy as a filter and as packing paper. [ 5 ] Qualitative filter paper [ edit ] Qualitative filter paper is used in qualitative analytical techniques to determine materials. There are different grades of qualitative filter paper according to different pore size. There are total 13 different grades of qualitative filter paper. The largest pore size is grade 4; the smallest pore size is grade 602 h; the most commonly used grades are grade 1 to grade 4. [ 6 ] 150mm qualitative filter paper Grade 1 qualitative filter paper has the pore size of 11 μm. This grade of filter paper is widely used for many different fields in agricultural analysis, air pollution monitoring and other similar experiments. [ 6 ] Grade 2 qualitative filter paper has the pore size of 8 μm. This grade of filter paper requires more filtration time than Grade 1 filter paper. This filter paper is used for monitoring specific contaminants in the atmosphere and soil testing. [ 6 ] Grade 3 qualitative filter paper has the pore size of 6 μm. This grade of filter paper is very suitable for carrying samples after filtration. [ 6 ] Grade 4 qualitative filter paper has the pore size of 20~25 μm. This grade of filter paper has the largest pore size among all standard qualitative filter papers. It is very useful as rapid filter for cleanup of geological fluids or organic extracts during experiment. [ 6 ] Grade 602 h qualitative filter paper has the pore size of 2 μm. This grade of filter paper has the smallest pore size among all standard qualitative filter papers. It is used for collecting or removing fine particles. [ 6 ] Quantitative filter paper [ edit ] Quantitative filter paper, also called ash-free filter paper, is used for quantitative and gravimetric analysis. During the manufacturing, producers use acid to make the paper ash-less and achieve high purity. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] filter paper uses for paper chromatography Chromatography papers [ edit ] Chromatography is a method chemists use to separate compounds. This type of filter paper has specific water flow rate and absorption speed to maximize the result of paper chromatography. The absorption speed of this type of filter paper is from 6 cm to 18 cm and the thickness is from 0.17 mm from 0.93 mm. [ 9 ] Extraction thimbles [ edit ] Extraction thimbles are rod-shape filter paper often used in soxhlet extractors or atomized extractors. It is ideal for very sensitive detection, the performance depends on the thickness of inner diameter. Also, it is usually used in areas of food control and environmental monitoring. [ 10 ] Glass fiber filters [ edit ] Glass fiber filter has the pore size of 1 μm, it is useful for filtering highly contaminated solutions or difficult-to-filter solution. Also, glass fiber filter has extends filter life, wide range of particulate loads and can prevent sample contamination. [ 11 ] In addition, different types of glass fiber filter are suitable for different filtration situation. There are 7 different types of glass fiber filters and the major difference is thickness. Quartz fiber filter [ edit ] Quartz fiber filter paper has a high resistance to chemicals, does not absorb NO x and SO x dioxides, is unaffected by humidity and is easily sterilized. Thus, it is mostly used for air pollution analysis. [ 12 ] PTFE filter [ edit ] Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) filter has wide operating temperature (−120 °C ~ 260 °C) with high air permeability . The resistance to high temperature makes PTFE filter paper suitable for use in autoclaves. It is often used to filter hot oils, strong solvents and collecting airborne particulates. [ 12 ] See also [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Paper filters . Air purifier Filter Particulates , e.g., PM10 Respirator Ulaxfilter [ sv ] References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e Paulapuro, Hannu Viljami [in Finnish] (2000). "5". Paper and Board grades . Papermaking Science and Technology. Vol. 18. Finland: Fapet Oy. pp. 113– 114. ISBN 952-5216-18-7 . ^ Gagné, Jonathan [at Wikidata] (2020). Zimmer, Jean (ed.). The Physics of Filter Coffee (1 ed.). Scott Rao. ISBN 978-0-578-24608-6 . [1] (xvi+249+3 pages) ^ "111 Jahre Melitta Zeitstrahl Allgemein" (PDF) (in German). Melitta . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2023-03-10 . Retrieved 2023-06-08 . ^ "Filtration Techniques" (PDF) . Filtration Techniques . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2015-05-01 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ Chambers, Ephraim , ed. (1728). "Charta emporetica" . Cyclopædia, or an Universal Dictionary of Arts and Sciences (1st ed.). James and John Knapton, et al. ^ a b c d e f "Filter Papers and Membranes" (PDF) . Filter Papers and Membranes . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2015-11-22 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ "Filter Papers for the Laboratory and Industry" (PDF) . Filter Papers for the Laboratory and Industry . Sartorius Stedim. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2015-11-22 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ "Lab Filtration Papers" . Lab Filtration Papers . ^ "Laboratory Filter Paper" (PDF) . Laboratory Filter Paper . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2016-03-09 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ "Cellulose extraction thimbles" . Hahnemuehle . Archived from the original on 2015-11-22 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ "Glass Fiber Filters" . Glass Fiber Filters . Pall Corporation. Archived from the original on 2015-11-22 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . ^ a b "Laboratory Filter Paper" (PDF) . Laboratory Filter Paper . Archived (PDF) from the original on 2016-03-09 . Retrieved 2015-11-21 . v t e Laboratory equipment General Heaters Dryers Alcohol burner Bunsen burner Desiccator Heating mantle Hot plate Lab oven Kiln Meker–Fisher burner Striker Teclu burner Water bath Vacuum dry box Mixers Shakers Chemostat Homogenizer Liquid whistle Magnetic stirrer Mortar and pestle Shaker Sonicator Static mixer Stirring rod Vortex mixer Wash bottle Stands Clamps Holders Beaker clamp Clamp holder Tripod Burette clamp Extension clamp Flask clamp Funnel support Iron ring Pinch clamp Retort stand Screw clamp Test tube holder Test tube rack Wire gauze Lab drying rack Containers Storage Agar plate Cryogenic storage dewar Incubator Laminar flow cabinet Microtiter plate Petri dish Picotiter plate Refrigerator Weighing boat Weighing dish Other items Aspirator Autoclave Balance brush Cork borer Crucible Filter paper File Forceps Centrifuge Microscope Pipeclay triangle Spectrophotometer Splint Stopper Scoopula Spatula Test tube brush Wire brush Inoculation needle Inoculation loop Glassware Apparatus Dean–Stark Soxhlet extractor Kipp's Bottles Boston round Condensers Cold finger Liebig Dishes Evaporating Petri Syracuse Watch glass Flasks Büchner Vacuum (Dewar) Erlenmeyer Fernbach Fleaker Florence Retort Round-bottom Schlenk Volumetric Funnels Büchner Hirsch Dropping Separatory Measuring devices Burette Conical measure Cuvette Eye dropper Eudiometer Graduated cylinder Ostwald viscometer Pipette Tubes Drying Cragie Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) Test Thiele Thistle Other items Beaker Bell jar Gas syringe Vial Analytical chemistry Compositional AutoAnalyzer CHN analyzer Colorimeter Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) device Gas chromatograph (GC) Liquid chromatograph (LC) Mass spectrometer (MS) pH indicator pH meter Microscopy Scanning electron microscope (SEM) Transmission electron microscope (TEM) Thermochemistry Calorimeter differential scanning Melting-point apparatus Thermometer Thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA) Other items Analytical balance Colony counter Spiral plater Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) instrument Plate reader Electronics Control devices Bench power supply Current source Voltage source Function generator Galvanostat Pulse generator Potentiostat Measurement Ammeter Logic analyzer Multimeter Network analyzer Oscilloscope Spectrum analyzer Time-domain reflectometer Transistor tester Voltmeter Tools Heat gun Soldering iron Tweezers Wire stripper General Alligator clip Test probe Safety Personal protective equipment (PPE) Lab coat Face shield Respirator Rubber apron Safety shower Eye and hand Acid-resistant gloves Eyewash station Glove box Medical gloves Nitrile gloves Safety glasses Safety goggles Other items Biosafety cabinet Fire blanket Fire extinguisher Fume hood Safety cabinet Solvent cabinet Instruments used in medical laboratories v t e Paper products Containers Box Carton Cigarette pack Coffee cup sleeve Corrugated box Corrugated fiberboard Envelope Molded pulp Oyster pail Paper bag Paper cup Paperboard Shipping tube Hygiene Facial tissue Napkin Paper towel Toilet paper Wet wipe Stationery Continuous stationery Greeting card Index card Letter Manila folder Notebook Postage stamp Postcard Post-it note Financial Banknote Business card Coupon Paper money Passbook Visiting card Decorations Ingrain wallpaper Mat Wallpaper Media Book Magazine Newspaper Newsprint Pamphlet Recreation Confetti Paper craft Paper toys Playing card Quilling Other Drink coaster Filter paper Form Paper model Sandpaper Security paper v t e Paper Paper engineering / Papermaking History Paper Ancestors Bamboo and wooden slips Barkcloth Amate Tapa Birch bark Palm leaf Papyrus Parchment Vellum Developers Cai Lun Damjing Matthias Koops Friedrich Gottlob Keller Charles Fenerty Scholars Timothy Barrett Thomas Francis Carter Dard Hunter Tsien Tsuen-hsuin Types of paper By Plant Fiber Banana Manila hemp Cotton Dung Dó Hemp Lokta Mulberry Daluang Hanji Saa Samarkand Washi Pith (Rice) Pulpwood Rag India Mummy Xuan Stone by Process Acid-free Air-laid Blue Cardboard Cardstock Corrugated fiberboard Paperboard Bristol Crêpe Glassine Kraft Laid Ingres Onionskin Paper towel Scritta (Bible) Seed Tissue Wasli Wood-free Wove Coated Asphalt Photographic Rosin Tar Thermal Wax by Use Blotting Bond Butcher Construction Display Cartridge Contact Copy Carbonless Correction Electrical insulation Filteration Inkjet Newsprint Origami Parchment Rolling Ruled paper Genkō yōshi Graph Security Tracing Transfer Wallpaper Writing Materials Kaolinite (China clay) Fiber crop Paper chemicals Wood pulp Specifications Density Grammage Paper sizes Surface chemistry of paper Units of paper quantity Wet strength Manufacture and process Paper machine Calender Conical refiner Hollander beater Paper recycling Deinking Pulp bleaching Chlorine-free Pulping Kraft Organosolv Soda Sulfite Paper industry Environmental impact of paper Paper industry Canada Europe India Indonesia Japan United States Paper mill List Uses Blueprint Papier-mâché Clothing Watercolor paper Paper money Category Commons Authority control databases GND Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Filter_paper&oldid=1288981909 " Categories : Paper Filters Analytical chemistry Laboratory equipment Liquid-solid separation Solid-gas separation Hidden categories: CS1 interwiki-linked names CS1 interproject-linked names CS1 German-language sources (de) Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1728 Cyclopaedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1728 Cyclopaedia without an article title parameter Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from June 2023 Use list-defined references from June 2023 Commons category link is on Wikidata