https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FCA_Bank

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from FCA Bank ) Automotive-oriented bank of Italy, joint venture of Stellantis and Crédit Agricole CA Auto Bank S.p.A. Company type Joint venture Società per azioni Industry Banking Founded January 16, 2015 ; 10 years ago ( January 16, 2015 ) Headquarters Corso G. Agnelli, 200 Turin , Italy Key people Giacomo Carelli ( CEO & General Manager ) Stéphane Priami ( Chairman ) Products car finance Operating income € 534 million (2017) Owners FCA Italy (formerly) Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance Number of employees 2,092 (2017) Website www .ca-autobank .com CA Auto Bank S.p.A. , formerly FCA Bank S.p.A. , is an Italian financial institution that focuses on car financing , formerly structured as joint venture between FCA Italy and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance . In 2023, FCA Bank S.p.A. becames CA Auto Bank S.p.A. after its acquisition by Crédit Agricole from Stellantis Italy . [ 1 ] The bank is dedicated to motorists, and mainly operates in the automotive financing sector and cooperates with the automotive brands Alfa Romeo , Chrysler , Fiat , Jeep , Abarth , Maserati , Aston Martin , Jaguar , Lotus and Land Rover , as well as motorhome and caravan manufacturer Hymer . History [ edit ] 1925–1938 [ edit ] Former logo of FCA Bank. On April 25, 1925, SAVA (acronym of Società Anonima Vendita Automobili) was established in Turin, Italy when the 509 model was put on the market. The "509" was the first FIAT model sold on credit. The finance house however also offered financing for the purchases of cars produced by other brands. 1927: S.A.V.A. starts the savings collection with interest-bearing bonds. In the same year, in order to raise the awareness of the newly established company and extend to clients the opportunity of owning a car, two Italian artists of the time Codognato and Romano, conceived S.A.V.A.'s first advertisement. On March 15, 1930, the board of directors of SAVA approved a share capital increase of 4,000,000 Lire and afterwards, on April 11 of that same year, FIAT purchased the entire shareholding. As sole shareholder, it decided that the disbursement of loans should be restricted to FIAT products only, starting from January 1, 1931. In 1938, in order to dispose of the big number of used cars, SAVA started to finance, through hire purchase solutions specific for the second-hand cars. [ 2 ] 2003–2006 [ edit ] In 2003 SAVA was placed under Fidis Retail Italia, 51% of which was sold to Banca Intesa, Sanpaolo IMI, Capitalia and Unicredit, while 49% remained with Fiat Auto. December 2006: Fiat Auto S.p.A. and Crédit Agricole S.A. create a joint venture with the aim of implementing FGA's financial activities across Europe. December 28, 2006 (closing date): the repurchase by Fiat Auto S.p.A. of a 51% holding in Fidis Retail Italia.; the merger in Fidis Retail Italia S.p.A. of the fully controlled FiatSava S.p.A.; the inclusion of Fidis Retail Italia S.p.A. in the special list ex art 107 of legislative decree 385/1993 TU.; the change in business name from Fidis Retail Italia S.p.A. to Fiat Auto Financial Services S.p.A.; the subscription by Fiat Auto S.p.A. of the capital increase needed to provide the joint venture with financial resources required by current regulations regarding the supervision of the assets of financial intermediaries; the entry of Sofinco S.A. (Crédit Agricole Group) in the shareholding structure with a 50% holding. 2007–2008 [ edit ] On March 1, 2007, Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A. (new business name of Fiat Auto S.p.A.) reunifies in Fidis Retail Italia S.p.A. all its European holdings in the sales networks and rental financing divisions. On April 5, 2007, following the change in business name from Fiat Auto to Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A., Fiat Auto Financial Services S.p.A. becomes Fiat Group Automobiles Financial Services S.p.A. July 2008: Fiat Group Automobiles Financial Services S.p.A. signs an important collaboration agreement with Jaguar Land Rover in the European car financing area. [ 2 ] 2009–2013 [ edit ] On January 1, 2009, Fiat Group Automobiles Financial Services changes its name to FGA Capital FGA Capital replaces Daimler Financial Services in the financial services management for all Chrysler brands (Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge). September 2013: FGA Capital signs a collaboration agreement with Maserati. Maserati Financial Services is born. October 2013: the partnership between FGA Capital, Jaguar Land Rover is renewed for four years, starting from January 1, 2014, with the option of extending the provision of finance services to support Jaguar Land Rover until the end of 2021. November 2013: the joint venture between Fiat Group Automobiles, Crédit Agricole e Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance is renewed up to December 31, 2021. [ 2 ] 2015–2019 [ edit ] FCA Bank SpA was born on January 16, 2015; this new company is equally made by FCA Italy S.p.A. and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance. After obtaining the banking license in Italy, FCA Bank becomes the leader of an international banking group present in 17 European countries, adding also Morocco. From July 2015 FCA Bank, along with the Erwin Hymer Group, announce the creation of Erwin Hymer Group Finance. On July 19, Moody's ranks FCA Bank A3, [ 3 ] the highest level among the Italian banking system, attesting its financial health. At a later time, in August, FCA Bank signs a joint venture agreement with Ferrari Financial Services AG, the company that offers financial solutions for private and business clients. [ 4 ] During October, FCA Bank expands further its offer, launching Conto Deposito, the company's first online savings account. [ 5 ] Starting from 2017, the Leasys company, wholly owned by FCA Bank, began a path of internationalization by expanding into the markets in which FCA Bank is present: United Kingdom, Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain. At the beginning of 2018, FCA Bank renewed its partnership with Jaguar Land Rover in continental Europe until the end of 2022. In the same year, the company was also chosen as a financial partner by two other historic luxury automotive brands: Aston Martin and Morgan Motor Company. Leasys, a subsidiary of FCA Bank, in 2018 acquired Winrent, a short-term rental company and at the same time continued its internationalization path. [ 6 ] From 2019 FCA Bank enters the two-wheeler business, thanks to a partnership with the Harley Davidson brand where it will offer financial services in Spain and Poland. [ citation needed ] In April 2019, FCA Bank was sanctioned by the Bank of Italy for an amount of €2.5 million, due to "shortcomings in the organization and controls on transparency". [ 7 ] 2020s [ edit ] FCA Bank signed a Cooperation and Service Agreement for the provision of financial services in Europe with VinFast Europe . [ 8 ] Branches [ edit ] FCA Bank has presence in many Europe countries and in Morocco. [ 9 ] In Italy FCA Bank headquarters are in Turin and it also has operations in Rome. Structure [ edit ] Shareholding [ edit ] FCA Bank is a joint venture between FCA Italy and Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance . The first is fully owned by Stellantis , while the second is a subsidiary of Crédit Agricole S.A.. FCA Bank, in turn, controls the following companies which can be divided into: Banking Group and Non Banking Group. Corporate [ edit ] Banking Group (share holding): [ 10 ] FCA Bank S.p.A. (Irish Branch) FCA Bank S.p.A. (Belgian Branch) FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (100%) Ferrari Financial Services GmbH (50%) FCA Dealer Services UK Ltd (100%) FCA Capital Nederland BV (100%) FCA Bank S.p.A. (Polish Branch) since 2020-01-01 fcabank.pl FCA Bank GmbH (50%) FCA Capital Espana EFC SA (100%) FCA Capital Portugal IFIC SA (100%) FCA Bank Deutschland GmbH (100%) FCA Capital France SA (100%) which, in turn, controls FCA Leasing France SNC (99,99%) FCA Capital Suisse SA (100%) FCA Capital Hellas SA (99,99%) which, in turn, controls FCA Insurance Hellas SA (99,99%) FCA Leasing GmbH (100%) FCA Dealer Services Espana SA (100%) FCA Leasing Polska sp.zp.o (100%) FCA Capital Danmark A/S (100%) which, in turn, controls FCA Capital Sverige AB (100%) and FCA Capital Norge AS (100%) Non Banking Group (share holding): Leasys S.p.A. (100%) FCA Dealer Services Portugal SA (100%) FCA Capital RE DAC (100%) See also [ edit ] Banks portal Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance FCA Alfa Romeo Fiat Abarth Fiat Professional Lancia Maserati Land Rover Mirafiori corporate building Notes [ edit ] ^ "CA Auto Bank : A Turin, naissance de la nouvelle banque de la mobilité en Europe" . lepetitjournal.com (in French) . Retrieved 2025-10-26 . ^ a b c "FCA Bank Group History" . ^ "Moody's Upgrades FCA Bank's deposit ratings to A3 and issuer ratings to Baa1; outlook stable" . 19 July 2016. ^ "Ferrari, sì della Ue al controllo congiunto di Financial Services insieme a Fca Bank" . 3 August 2016. ^ "Fca Bank sostiene il risparmio degli automobilisti" . 5 October 2016. ^ "Banca d'Italia - Provvedimenti sanzionatori" (PDF) . Retrieved 2021-04-24 . ^ "Banca d'Italia - Provvedimenti sanzionatori" (PDF) . Retrieved 2021-04-24 . ^ "Vinfast partners with FCA Bank, reveals vf 8 and vf 9 monthly payment details in Europe" . FCA Bank. 2022-05-19. VinFast has signed a Cooperation and Service Agreement with FCA Bank – a leader in mobility financial services, to provide a wide range of innovative and flexible financial services for VinFast EVs in Europe ^ "FCA Bank Group" . ^ "FCA Bank Group" . Gallery [ edit ] External links [ edit ] CA Auto Bank on LinkedIn v t e Stellantis Stellantis vehicles Stellantis platforms Predecessors Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Chrysler Group LLC Fiat S.p.A. PSA Group Chrysler Europe Citroën Peugeot Marques Alfa Romeo Chrysler Citroën Dodge DS Fiat Abarth Professional Hedmos Jeep Lancia Maserati Opel Vauxhall Peugeot Ram Subsidiaries, joint ventures Comau FCA Bank (50%) IKAP (50%) Leapmotor (20%) Mopar PCMA Sevel Share Now Teksid (85%) Tofaş (38%) VM Motori Dongfeng Motor Group Regional operations Argentina Australia Canada China France Italy India Ireland Japan North America Poland Serbia (67%) Factory locations Aspern Atessa Belvidere Brampton Buenos Aires Cassino Detroit Jefferson Mack Dundee Eisenach Ellesmere Port Figueruelas Gliwice Hordain Indiana Kenitra Kokomo Casting Transmission Kragujevac Luton Madrid Mangualde Turin Mirafiori Mulhouse Poissy Pomigliano d'Arco Porto Real Rüsselsheim Rennes Saltillo Sochaux Sterling Heights Szentgotthárd Toledo Complex Toledo Machining Toluca Trenton Trnava Tychy Vigo Warren Stamping Truck Assembly Windsor Officers John Elkann (chairman) Antonio Filosa (current CEO) Carlos Tavares (former CEO) Related topics Chrysler World Headquarters and Technology Center Musée de l'Aventure Peugeot Stellantis Heritage Commons • Category v t e Crédit Agricole Group Shareholder structure SAS Rue La Boétie [ fr ] Board of directors Jean-Marie Sander (Chairman of Crédit Agricole S.A.) Jean-Paul Chifflet (Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A.) Division and subsidiaries French Retail Banking Credit Agricole local banks 39 regional banks [ fr ] LCL BforBank Specialised financial services Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance FCA Bank ; 50% Crédit Agricole Leasing & Factoring EFL Corporate and Investment Banking Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank BSF CLSA BV Savings management Amundi Group SBI Mutual Fund Crédit Agricole Private Banking Indosuez Private Banking Crédit foncier de Monaco Crédit Agricole Suisse Crédit Agricole Luxembourg CACEIS Insurances Crédit Agricole Assurances Predica Pacifica Crédit Agricole Vita International retail banking Bankoa Crédit Agricole Italia Crédit Agricole Egypt Crédit Agricole banka Srbija Novi Sad Crédit Agricole Polska Crédit Agricole Bank Crédit du Maroc Corporate Centre Crédit Agricole Capital Investissement & Finance SILCA Crédit Agricole immobilier Uni-éditions Crédit Agricole Cards & Payments Foncaris Delfinances Eurofactor Former subsidiaries Crédit Agricole Cheuvreux Emporiki Crédit Agricole Private Equity v t e Banking in Italy Central bank Bank of Italy European Central Bank Italy portal Public banks Cassa Depositi e Prestiti CDP Reti Poste Italiane BancoPosta Banca del Mezzogiorno – MedioCredito Centrale Istituto per il Credito Sportivo Banca Mediocredito del Friuli Venezia Giulia Investitionsbank Trentino Südtirol – Mediocredito Trentino Alto Adige Finaosta Fincalabra Finlombarda Finmolise Finpiemonte Fidi Toscana FIRA Gepafin IRFIS – FinSicilia Sviluppo Basilicata SFIRS Veneto Sviluppo FarBanca Banca Intermobiliare Global banks (Supervised by ECB) UniCredit buddybank Intesa Sanpaolo isybank Mooney Banca 5 Banca IMI Mediocredito Italiano Banca Apulia UBI Banca Nationwide and multi-regional banks (Supervised by ECB) Banco BPM Banca Aletti Banca Popolare di Milano Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena MPS Capital Services Mediobanca BPER Banca Banco di Sardegna Banca di Sassari Banca Popolare di Sondrio Credito Emiliano Multi-regional (total assets €30b to €8b) Banca Mediolanum Banca Sella Holding Banca Sella Banca Patrimoni Sella Banco di Desio e della Brianza Banca Popolare di Spoleto Banca di Asti Biverbanca Südtiroler Volksbank – Banca Popolare dell'Alto Adige Südtiroler Sparkasse – Cassa di Risparmio di Bolzano Multi-regional and regional cooperative bank (Popolari banks) Banca Agricola Popolare di Ragusa Banca Valsabbina Banca Popolare di Puglia e Basilicata Banca Popolare di Cividale Cassa di Sovvenzioni e Risparmio fra il Personale della Banca d'Italia Banca Popolare Pugliese Banca di Piacenza Banca di Credito Popolare Banca Popolare del Lazio Banca Popolare del Cassinate Banca Popolare Valconca Banca Popolare Etica Banca Popolare Sant'Angelo Sanfelice 1893 Banca Popolare Banca Popolare di Lajatico Banca Popolare di Fondi Banca Popolare del Frusinate Co-operative banks (BCC-CR) Federcasse BCC Iccrea Group Gruppo Cassa Centrale Banca South Tyrolean Raiffeisen Group Fondo di Garanzia dei Depositanti del Credito Cooperativo Regional retail bank Cassa di Risparmio di Ravenna Banco di Lucca e del Tirreno Banca di Imola Banca di Cambiano Cassa di Risparmio di Cento ChiantiBanca Cassa Padana Cassa di Risparmio di Volterra Cassa di Risparmio di Fossano Banca del Fucino Cassa di Risparmio di Fermo Banca del Piemonte Banca CR Savigliano Banco Azzoaglio others Banca Generali Banca IFIS Banca Finnat Banca Ubae Banca Farmafactoring FinecoBank Unione Fiduciaria Credito Fondiario Banca Passadore Banca Sistema Banca Profilo Mercury Nexi Setefi Foreign banks Allianz Allianz S.p.A. Barclays Banco Santander Bank of China Bank of Communications BNP Paribas Banca Nazionale del Lavoro China Construction Bank Crédit Agricole Crédit Agricole Italia Cariparma Carispezia FriulAdria Credito Valtellinese Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank FCA Bank Credit Suisse Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank S.p.A. HSBC ING Bank Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Société Générale Ancient banks Bank of Saint George Banca Leonardo Banco di Santo Spirito Istituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino Medici Bank Mount of piety Faenza Foggia Parma Perugia Reggio Emilia Treviso Udine Verona Vicenza Related topics List of banks in Italy Associazione Bancaria Italiana Associazione di Fondazioni e di Casse di Risparmio S.p.A. Associazione Nazionale fra le Banche Popolari Fondo Interbancario di Tutela dei Depositi Italian National Resolution Fund Unità di Informazione Finanziaria Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=CA_Auto_Bank&oldid=1319394622 " Categories : Banks of Italy Italian companies established in 2015 Banks established in 2015 Stellantis Crédit Agricole joint ventures Companies based in Turin Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Pages using infobox company with a logo from wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2023 LinkedIn page template ID starting with company/