https://www.wikihow.com/wikiHow:Jobs

Imagine a world where anyone can learn how to do anything. Where access to comprehensive step-by-step instructions in multiple languages
enables billions of people to improve their lives, in ordinary and extraordinary ways. That's the world we want to create. We’re looking for a few talented, collaborative, delightful employees with an interest in education to join our cause. Are you in? Steps Fast Facts wikiHow is the only company in the Comscore top 150 that has under 30 employees. wikiHow helps 100 million people every month, in 19 languages. We have ambitions to push our mission much further . wikiHow offers remote work from certain locations. Though we’re based in Palo Alto, CA, we allow remote work from other states on the West Coast. Additional states may be considered but will require review and approval on a case-by-case basis. You can find our office, the wikiHaus, in beautiful downtown Palo Alto. Bonus: we’re just 3 blocks from the Caltrain Station! wikiHow is considered one of the Internet’s most influential websites . What sets us apart? We value our mission over short-term goals: We take our mission very seriously. Our team consists of a rare breed: humble, high-performers. Each of us is insanely productive. Our small team of under 30 people is competing with mega corporations with hundreds of employees. And beating them! Huge number of users + Small team = Your work will make an immediate, noticeable impact on millions of people. “Well, wikiHow about that?” -- The Big Bang Theory Company Culture We love coming to work every day. Working with intelligent people to accomplish something globally ambitious is intrinsically satisfying. We are profitable and growing. We are self-funded. We refuse VC money on a regular basis. Investors don’t make our decisions, we do. Our small, cohesive team is gender balanced. We’re often wrong (and that’s OK). Making mistakes show that we are innovating. We love to innovate. We like walking. We even have a few treadmill desks. Find us working outside on a sunny California day, enjoying our beautiful backyard patio — perfect for collaboration and inspiration. We don't think working long start-up hours is healthy. We work hard and productively, then go enjoy rich lives outside of work. We pay top performers well. We are better in person than on TV . We're delightfully quirky (but you probably figured that out already). Just because we’re remote doesn’t mean we don’t enjoy team bonding! We love taking time for online games, the occasional virtual ice cream tasting, and live team meetups. One Thing to Keep In Mind wikiHow is not hoping to be acquired or looking for a quick financial exit. We're already profitable, financially stable, and we all love working here, so we aren't in a rush to sell out. Selling might mean the end to a product that we all love working on. It is an amazing feeling to work on such a popular, high-impact product! That amazing feeling makes us smile when we wake up every day. If all of this sounds appealing to you, we encourage you to apply. If this is a bummer, then that’s okay too, we probably aren't the best fit for you right now, and that’s totally fine! Employee Benefits Competitive Compensation Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance (Paid 100% by wikiHow for employee) Short & Long Term Disability Insurance Paid Maternity/Paternity Leave Flexible Spending Accounts (e.g. Medical FSA, Dependent Care FSA) 401(k) Plan with up to a 4% Company Match* Remote Work Friendly (West Coast only) Continuing Education Reimbursement Office in downtown Palo Alto Gender-Balanced Team 15 days PTO per year, paid holidays, and additional paid one-week company-wide closure during winter holidays (so you don't have to use your PTO days for the holidays**) *employees qualify for 401k after one year of service **minimal critical operations required during closure Want to Work With Us? We're always looking for talented individuals to join our team. If you're interested in joining us on our mission to help millions of people learn how to do anything, please reach out by sharing your resume and cover letter over Google Drive to jobs@wikiHow.com . Just want to help wikiHow? Volunteer.