https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tongue_and_groove

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Method of fitting similar objects together For the error effect in radiation therapy, see Radiation therapy § Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) . For the nightclub, see Tongue & Groove (Atlanta) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Tongue and groove" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( May 2007 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Solid parquet boards with grooves on the near ends. Tongues on the right sides of the boards and grooves on the left sides. The far ends are tongued. Tongue and groove is a method of fitting similar objects together, edge to edge, used mainly with wood , in flooring , parquetry , panelling , and similar constructions. A strong joint, it allows two flat pieces to be joined strongly together to make a single flat surface. Before plywood became common, tongue-and-groove boards were also used for sheathing buildings and to construct concrete formwork . Each piece has a slot (the groove or dado ) cut all along one edge or along two adjacent edges, and a thin, deep ridge (the tongue ) on the opposite edge or edges. The tongue projects a little less than the depth of the groove. Two or more pieces thus fit together closely. The joint is not normally glued , as shrinkage would then pull the tongue off. The effect of wood shrinkage is concealed when the joint is beaded or otherwise moulded. [ 1 ] In another assembly method, the pieces are end-matched. This method eliminates the need for mitre joints , face nailing , and the use of joints on 16-inch (410 mm) or 24-inch (610 mm) centres of conventional framing . For joining thicker materials, several tongue-and-groove joints may be used one above the other. In fine woodworking such as cabinet making , both glued dovetail joints and tongue-and-groove joints are used. For many uses, tongue-and-groove boards have been rendered obsolete by the introduction of plywood and later composite wood boards, but the method is still used in higher-quality boards. Plywood may also be tongued all round to fit flush into a framed structure, and plywood for sub-floors used in platform framing is often supplied with tongue-and-groove edges. In old sailor slang vernacular, a tonguin (pronounced / t ə ŋ ɪ n / ) refers to a small boat or raft of tongue-and-groove construction or to repairs made to such a craft. Methods [ edit ] One of the following woodworking tools may be used to produce the tongue and groove: A wood shaper (spindle moulder) – a four- or six-head moulder for large quantities A circular saw bench Suitable hand planes : a plough plane for the groove and a tongue plane for the tongue, or a combination plane A spindle router Tongue in groove (Slip tongue and groove) [ edit ] Tongue in groove is similar to tongue and groove, but instead of the tongue forming part of one of the edges, it is a separate, loose piece, called a slip tongue or spline , [ 2 ] that fits between two identically grooved edges. The tongue may or may not be of the same material as the grooved pieces joined by the tongue. For example, plywood flooring is commonly grooved at the edges, and plastic tongues are used to form the joint. See also [ edit ] Cabinet making Carpentry Fluting (architecture) Gland (engineering) Groove (engineering) Larssen sheet piling Pulley Rabbet Woodworking joints References [ edit ] ^ Tongue and Groove, WoodworkDetails.com ^ Dan Miller (8 April 2024). "Tongue and Groove Joint" . Fine Power Tools . Retrieved 22 May 2025 . Look up tongue and groove in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. v t e Woodworking Overviews History Glossary Wood ( lumber ) Occupations Boat building Bow and arrow Bush carpentry Cabinetry Caning Carpentry Certosina Chainsaw carving Chip carving Ébéniste Fretwork Intarsia Japanese carpentry Khatam Kohlrosing Log building Luthier Marquetry Millwork Pallet crafting Parquetry Pyrography Relief carving Root carving Segmented turning Shingle weaving Shipbuilding Spindle turning Timber framing Treen Whittling Wood carving Woodturning Woods Soft Cedar ( Calocedrus , Cedrus ) Cypress Douglas fir Fir Juniper Larch Kauri Pine Rimu Spruce Yew Hard Afromosia Alder Andiroba Anigre Ash Apple Aspen Avodire Balsa Beech Bilinga Birch African Blackwood Australian Blackwood Boxwood Bubinga Camphor Cedrela Cherry Chestnut Cocobolo Cumaru Ebony Elm Eucalyptus Hazel Hickory Hornbeam Idigbo Imbuia Ipê Iroko Jarrah Jelutong Lignum vitae Linden (lime, basswood) Lovoa Merbau Mahogany ( American , African ) Maple Meranti Oak Padauk Pear Plum Poplar Purpleheart Ovankol Ramin Red Quebracho Rosewood Rubberwood Sapele Teak Totara Utile Walnut Wenge Willow Zebrano Engineered Cross-laminated Glue laminated Hardboard MDF OSB Particle board Plywood Wood–plastic composite Tools Abrasives Axe Adze Burnisher Chisel Drawknife Drill Fence Float Gimlet Gauge Hinge bender Impact driver Janka hardness test Jointer Mallet Milling machine Mitre box Rasp Router Sandpaper Shaper Shaving horse Square ( Carpenters , Combination , Miter , Speed , Try ) Thickness planer Timber-framing Veneer hammer Vise Warrington hammer Winding sticks Wood scribe Workbench Clamps Band clamp C-clamp F-clamp Flooring clamp Gripe Holdfast Miter clamp Pipe clamp Sawbuck Saws Backsaw Bandsaw Bow Bucksaw Chainsaw Circular Compass Coping Crosscut Frame Fretsaw Hand saw Jigsaw Keyhole Miter Ripsaw Scroll Table Veneer Whipsaw Planes Bedrock plane Block plane Chamfer plane Compass plane Finger plane Fore plane Grooving plane Jack plane Japanese plane Jointer plane Moulding plane Razee plane Rebate plane Router plane Scrub plane Shoulder plane Smoothing plane Spokeshave Surform Geometry Joints Birdsmouth Biscuit Box Bridle Butt Butterfly Coping Crown of thorns Dado Dovetail Finger Groove Halved Hammer-headed tenon Knee Lap Mason's miter Miter Mortise and tenon Rabbet/Rebate Scarf Splice Tongue and groove Profiles Bead Bevel Chamfer Ogee Ogive Ovolo Surface piecing Binding Edge banding Intarsia Marquetry Oystering Parquetry Purfling Treatments Adhesive French polish Heat bending Lacquer Oil Paint Paint stripper Steam bending Thermal Varnish Wax Wood drying Wood preservation Wood stain Wood finishing Organizations American Association of Woodturners Architectural Woodwork Institute British Woodworking Federation Building and Wood Workers' International Caricature carving International Federation of Building and Wood Workers National Wood Carvers Association Society of Wood Engravers Timber Framers Guild Conversion Chainsaw mill Hewing Sawmill Whipsaw Wood splitting Flat sawing Quarter sawing Rift sawing Techniques Frame and panel Frameless construction Green woodworking Category WikiProject Commons Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tongue_and_groove&oldid=1291750786 " Categories : Joinery Woodworking Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from May 2007 All articles needing additional references