https://www.autoweek.com/news/a69735568/ford-axes-f-150-lightning-announces-erev-hybrid

Ford Ford stopped production of the F-150 Lightning electric pickup truck in October after a fire at a supplier, but announced yesterday production would end. The all-electric truck sold fewer than 100,000 units since its debut in 2022. Ford plans to offer a series-hybrid F-150 in the future. After selling almost 100,000 of its innovative F-150 Lightning electric pickups since the truck’s debut in 2022, Ford has pulled the plug on the relatively slow-selling model. It’s part of a big shakeup at the Blue Oval that Ford said would “follow customers to drive profitable growth while reinvesting in trucks, hybrids, affordable EVs, and battery storage.” So while it’s ending the Lightning (production actually stopped in October), it’s not going all the way back to carbureted V8s and sooty diesels. Ford said it would offer “broad choices” with gas, hybrids, and EVs, “to complement efficient gas engines.” They Had Hopes for this One 2026 Ford F-150 Lightning Adds Off-Road STX Trim Ford’s Universal EV Platform is still planned to underpin multiple models, the maker said. That’s a new, simplified, and more cost-effective architecture designed for affordable electric vehicles. The platform will incorporate LFP battery packs as the vehicle floor, part of a parts reduction and assembly efficiency system that will produce a $30,000 electric truck by 2027, Ford said. It’s part of a bigger plan. “By 2030, about 50% of Ford’s global volume will be hybrids, extended-range EVs and electric vehicles, versus 17% today,” Ford said. That’s as of today. Ford had high hopes for the Lightning, too. The F-150 Lightning created quite a buzz when it came on the market in 2022. Ford “The Ford F-150 Lightning … is easily one of the most-important launches for Ford in this entire decade, and also one of the most important EV launches for any automaker,” we said three years ago. “Making its global debut just months after the start of sales of the Mustang Mach-E , the 2022 F-150 Lightning wants to turn the Blue Oval’s best-seller into the best-selling EV truck in America, and as we saw last night (at the Lightning’s introduction) all the ingredients are there.” Back then, a Lightning equipped with the standard-range battery made 426 hp and 725 lb-ft of torque. Upgrade to the long-range battery, and you got 563 hp and 725 lb-ft of torque. Towing was rated at 10,000 lbs, payload at 2,000. And that original Lightning was a veritable Hoover dam of power generation, too, with four power outlets in the frunk and seven others elsewhere, including in the bed and cabin, for a total of 11 outlets. All that and a maximum range of 300 miles. As for the mighty F-150, Ford said it will offer an EREV version. Entry-level price was listed at just $39,974, before those meaty—but now expired—government incentives. The latest MSRPs for a Lightning were from $57,375 to $87,590. Nothing lasts forever. “The operating reality has changed, and we are redeploying capital into higher-return growth opportunities: Ford Pro, our market-leading trucks and vans, hybrids and high-margin opportunities like our new battery energy storage business,” said Ford president and CEO Jim Farley. Ford said it will concentrate its North American electric vehicle development on its new, low-cost, flexible Universal EV Platform. Ford said the first vehicle from that platform will be a midsize pickup truck in 2027. Other Ideas Slate Has Big Plans for Its Little EV Truck Most Full-Size EV Pickups Have a Residual Problem Gallery: Ford F-150 Lightning SuperTruck EV As for the mighty F-150, Ford said it will offer an EREV version, or extended range electric vehicle, a marketing term for a hybrid. It will be a series hybrid, wherein the gas engine functions only as a generator of electricity—the wheels will be driven by electric motors. The new F-150 EREV will offer power outlets just as the Lightning did. “The F-150 Lightning is a groundbreaking product that demonstrated an electric pickup can still be a great F-Series,” said Doug Field, Ford’s chief EV, digital, and design officer. “Our next-generation Lightning EREV is every bit as revolutionary. It keeps everything customers love—100% electric power delivery, sub-5-second acceleration—and adds an estimated 700+ mile range and tows like a locomotive. It will be an incredibly versatile tool delivered in a capital-efficient way.” All that battery production Ford established for Lightning sales that never materialized will now be repurposed for large storage batteries. Ford plans to repurpose existing US battery manufacturing capacity in Glendale, Kentucky, to serve the rapidly growing battery energy storage systems market, Automotive News reported. The Kentucky site will be converted to manufacture 5 MWh-plus advanced battery energy storage systems. And regardless of killing off its Lightning, Ford says it maintains its goal of becoming carbon neutral across its vehicles, manufacturing facilities, and supply chain no later than 2050. Mark Vaughn Mark Vaughn grew up in a Ford family and spent many hours holding a trouble light over a straight-six miraculously fed by a single-barrel carburetor while his father cursed the Blue Oval, all its products and everyone who ever worked there. This was his introduction to objective automotive criticism. He started writing for City News Service in Los Angeles, then moved to Europe and became editor of a car magazine called, creatively, Auto. He decided Auto should cover Formula 1, sports prototypes and touring cars—no one stopped him! From there he interviewed with Autoweek at the 1989 Frankfurt motor show and has been with us ever since.