https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Engine_control_unit

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Computer that adjusts electronics in an internal combustion propulsion system Delco ECU used in General Motors vehicles built in 1996 An engine control unit ( ECU ), also called an engine control module ( ECM ), [ 1 ] is a device that controls various subsystems of an internal combustion engine . Systems commonly controlled by an ECU include the fuel injection and ignition systems. The earliest ECUs (used by aircraft engines in the late 1930s) were mechanical-hydraulic units; however, most 21st-century ECUs operate using digital electronics . Functions [ edit ] The main functions of the ECU are typically: Fuel injection system Ignition system Idle speed control (typically either via an idle air control valve or the electronic throttle system) Variable valve timing and/or variable valve lift systems The sensors used by the ECU include: [ 2 ] accelerator pedal position sensor camshaft position sensor coolant temperature sensor crankshaft position sensor knock sensors inlet manifold pressure sensor ( MAP sensor ) intake air temperature intake air mass flow rate sensor ( MAF sensor ) oxygen (lambda) sensor throttle position sensor wheel speed sensor Secondary [ edit ] Other functions include: Launch control Fuel pressure regulator Rev limiter Wastegate control and anti-lag Theft prevention by blocking ignition, in response to input from an immobiliser In a camless piston engine (an experimental design not currently used in any production vehicles), the ECU has continuous control of when each of the intake and exhaust valves are opened and by how much. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Early systems [ edit ] One of the earliest attempts to use such a unitised and automated device to manage multiple engine control functions simultaneously was created by BMW in 1939 Kommandogerät system used by the BMW 801 14-cylinder radial engine which powered the Focke-Wulf Fw 190 V5 fighter aircraft. [ 5 ] This device replaced the six controls used to initiate hard acceleration with one control, however the system could cause surging and stalling problems. [ citation needed ] Despite its limitations, the Kommandogerät represented a significant step toward integrated engine management by mechanically linking throttle position to fuel delivery, ignition timing, supercharger control, and propeller pitch. The system used cams, gears, and pressure-based regulators to compute appropriate settings across different operating conditions, effectively acting as an early analog computer. Although it lacked the adaptability and precision of later electronic systems, the Kommandogerät demonstrated the feasibility of reducing pilot workload through automated coordination of multiple engine parameters. Its underlying concept influenced subsequent developments in aircraft and automotive engine control, eventually leading to electronically controlled systems such as full authority digital engine control (FADEC) and modern engine control units (ECUs). [ 6 ] Use in motor vehicles [ edit ] In the early 1970s, the Japanese electronics industry began producing integrated circuits and microcontrollers used for controlling engines. [ 7 ] The Ford EEC (Electronic Engine Control) system, which used the Toshiba TLCS-12 microprocessor, entered mass production in 1975. [ 8 ] The first Bosch engine management system was the Motronic 1.0 , which was introduced in the 1979 BMW 7 Series (E23) [ 9 ] This system was based on the existing Bosch Jetronic fuel injection system, to which control of the ignition system was added. [ 10 ] In 1981, a Delco Electronics ECU was used by several Chevrolet and Buick engines to control their fuel system (a closed-loop carburetor) and ignition system. [ 11 ] By 1988, Delco Electronics was the leading producer of engine management systems, producing over 28,000 ECUs per day. [ 12 ] Use in aircraft engines [ edit ] Such systems are used for many internal combustion engines in other applications. In aeronautical applications, the systems are known as " FADECs " (Full Authority Digital Engine Controls). This kind of electronic control is less common in piston-engined light fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters than in automobiles. This is due to the common configuration of a carbureted engine with a magneto ignition system that does not require electrical power generated by an alternator to run, which is considered a safety advantage. [ 13 ] See also [ edit ] Air-fuel ratio meter Check engine light List of auto parts On-board diagnostics (OBD) Powertrain control module (PCM) References [ edit ] ^ "How an Automotive Computer Works" . www.2carpros.com . Retrieved 14 May 2023 . ^ "Toyota Prius - Engine Control Systems" (PDF) . www.autoshop101.com . Retrieved 14 May 2023 . ^ Austen, Ian (2003-08-21). "WHAT'S NEXT; A Chip-Based Challenge to a Car's Spinning Camshaft" . The New York Times . Retrieved 2009-01-16 . ^ "How Proportional Valve Control Module control the oil flow direction" . www.genndih.com . Retrieved 2023-06-03 . ^ Gunston, Bill (1989). World Encyclopedia of Aero Engines . Cambridge, England: Patrick Stephens Limited. p. 26. ISBN 978-1-85260-163-8 . ^ OBD2, EngineTroubleCode com-. "Engine History" . EngineTroubleCode.com . Retrieved 2025-12-18 . {{ cite web }} :  CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list ( link ) ^ "Trends in the Semiconductor Industry: 1970s" . Semiconductor History Museum of Japan . Retrieved 27 June 2019 . ^ "1973: 12-bit engine-control microprocessor (Toshiba)" (PDF) . Semiconductor History Museum of Japan . Retrieved 27 June 2019 . ^ "25 years of Bosch Motronic: Think tank under the bonnet" . www.bosch.com . Archived from the original on 23 June 2006. ^ Probst, C. (27 November 1989). Bosch Fuel Injection and Engine Management . Robert Bentley, Incorporated. ISBN 978-0-8376-0300-1 . Retrieved 13 May 2023 . ^ "GM Emission Control Project Center - I Was There" . www.gmheritagecenter.com . Archived from the original on 3 July 2017. ^ Delco Electronics Electron Magazine, The Atwood Legacy, Spring '89, page 25 ^ Pilot's Encyclopedia of Aeronautical Knowledge . Federal Aviation Administration . Wikimedia Commons has media related to Engine control unit . v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Engine_control_unit&oldid=1328185067 " Categories : Engine control systems Power control Engine technology Fuel injection systems Engine components Onboard computers Hidden categories: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2023 Commons category link from Wikidata