https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_and_planet_gear

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Type of gear used in early beam engines Not to be confused with planetary gear . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Sun and planet gear" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( March 2015 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The Whitbread Engine of 1785 The sun and planet gear is a method of converting reciprocating motion to rotary motion and was used in the first rotative beam engines . It was invented by the Scottish engineer William Murdoch , an employee of Boulton and Watt , but was patented by James Watt in October 1781. [ 1 ] It was invented to bypass the patent on the crank , already held by James Pickard . [ 2 ] It played an important part in the development of devices for rotation in the Industrial Revolution . [ citation needed ] Operation [ edit ] Animation of Sun & Planet gear using Meccano . Notice that the sun and flywheel rotate twice for every circuit of the planet when they have a 1:1 ratio of teeth. The sun and  planet gear converted the vertical motion of a beam, driven by a steam engine , into circular motion using a 'planet', a cogwheel fixed at the end of the connecting rod (connected to the beam) of the engine. With the motion of the beam, this revolved around, and turned, the 'sun', a second rotating cog fixed to the drive shaft, thus generating rotary motion. An interesting feature of this arrangement, when compared to that of a simple crank, is that when both sun and planet have the same number of teeth, the drive shaft completes two revolutions for each double stroke of the beam instead of one. The planet gear is fixed to the connecting rod and thus does not rotate around its own axis. Note that the axles of the two gears are usually tied to each other by a freely rotating link (the white bar visible behind the gears in the animation) that keeps the two gears engaged but does not contribute to the drive torque. This link appears, at first sight, to be similar to a crank but the drive is not transmitted through it. Thus, it did not contravene the crank patent. Automotive [ edit ] Automaker Henry Ford utilized a sun and planet gear in his powertrain for the Model T motorcar, and the gear was manufactured for this purpose in millions of copies in the U.S. until 1927.  The Ford Motor Company called the gearset a "planetary transmission." [ 3 ] See also [ edit ] Epicyclic gearing References [ edit ] ^ http://himed.net/TheHopkinThomasProject/TimeLine/Wales/Steam/JamesWatt/RobinsonMusson/JamesWattPatents.htm#Patent1781 [ dead link ] ^ Catalogue of the Mechanical Engineering Collection in the Science Division of the Victoria and Albert Museum, South Kensington , Read books, 2007, p. 35, ISBN 978-1-4067-8053-6 . ^ "Diagram of the Ford Model T Magneto and Transmission, Published in Ford Times, October 1910" . thehenryford.org . The Henry Ford . 2025 . Retrieved May 25, 2025 . The Ford Model T used a two-speed planetary gearset in its transmission throughout the car's production run from 1908-1927. External links [ edit ] Henry Ford Museum Watt Rotative Engine Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sun and planet gear . v t e Gears Systems Spur gear systems Worm drive Rack and pinion Epicyclic (planetary) gearing Sun and planet gear Harmonic drive Cycloidal drive Non-circular gear Shapes Spur Bevel Crown Spiral bevel Helical Herringbone Geartooth profiles Involute Cycloid Mechanics Transmission Differential Coupling Train Bicycle gearing Continuously variable transmission Offset Examples Bicycles Cogset Derailleur Hub gear Shaft-driven bicycle Sprocket Horology Wheel train See also Ball screw Leadscrew Jackscrew Belt drive Chain drive Gear manufacturing Freewheel Spur gear corrected tooth v t e Steam engines Operating cycle Atmospheric Watt Cornish Compound Uniflow Valves Valves Slide D slide Piston Drop Corliss Poppet Sleeve Bash Valve gear Gab Stephenson link Joy Walschaerts Allan Baker Corliss Lentz Caprotti Gresley conjugated Southern Mechanisms Beam Cataract Centrifugal governor Connecting rod Crank Crankshaft Tusi couple hypocycloidal straight line mechanism Link chain Parallel motion Plate chain Rotative beam Sun and planet gear Watt's linkage Boilers Simple boilers Haystack Wagon Egg-ended Box Flued Cornish Lancashire Fire-tube boilers Locomotive Scotch Launch Water-tube boilers Babcock & Wilcox Field-tube Sentinel Stirling Thimble tube Three-drum Yarrow Boiler feed Feedwater heater Feedwater pump Injector Cylinder Locomotive Oscillating Single- and double-acting Condenser Condensing steam locomotive Jet Kirchweger Watt's separate "Pickle-pot" Surface Other Blowback Crosshead Cutoff Expansion valve Hydrolock Piston Reciprocating engine Return connecting rod engine Six-column beam engine Steeple engine Safety valve Steeple compound engine Stroke Working fluid History Precursors Savery Engine (1698) Newcomen engine Newcomen Memorial Engine (1725) Fairbottom Bobs (1760) Elsecar Engine (1795) Watt engine Beam Kinneil Engine (1768) Old Bess (1777) Chacewater Mine engine (1778) Smethwick Engine (1779) Resolution (1781) Rotative beam Soho Manufactory engine (1782) Bradley Works engine (1783) Whitbread Engine (1785) National Museum of Scotland engine (1786) Lap Engine (1788) High-pressure Richard Trevithick Puffing Devil (1801) London Steam Carriage (1803) "Coalbrookdale Locomotive" (1803) "Pen-y-Darren" locomotive (1804) Compound Woolf's compound engine (1803) Murray Murray's Hypocycloidal Engine (1805) Salamanca (1812) High-speed Porter-Allen (1862) Ljungström (1908) See also Glossary of steam locomotive components History of steam road vehicles Cugnot's fardier à vapeur (1769) Murdoch's model steam carriage (1784) Lean's Engine Reporter List of steam technology patents Modern steam Stationary steam engine Timeline of steam power Water-returning engine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sun_and_planet_gear&oldid=1292193622 " Categories : Gears Steam engines Piston engines Engine technology Linkages (mechanical) Scottish inventions British inventions Industrial Revolution Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2022 Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from March 2015 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2010 Commons category link is on Wikidata