https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hood_scoop

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Opening for air to enter car engines This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Hood scoop" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( October 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Functional hood scoop on a Subaru Impreza WRX A hood scoop ( North American English ) or bonnet scoop ( Commonwealth English ), sometimes called bonnet airdam and air dam , is an upraised component on the hood of a motor vehicle that either allows air to directly enter the engine compartment or appears to do so. It has only one opening and is closed on all other sides. Its upraised design allows it to effectively channel air directly into the engine compartment without the need to pass through the normal intake ducting. [ 1 ] Some hood scoops are always closed and serve as decoration rather than performance. Hood scoop functions [ edit ] Cool air [ edit ] In most modern vehicles, internal combustion engines "breathe" under-hood air or air ducted from under the front bumper through plastic and rubber tubing. The high operating temperatures in the engine compartment result in intake air that is 28°C (82°F) or warmer than the ambient temperature and consequently, less dense. A hood scoop can provide the engine with cooler, denser outside air, increasing power. Ram air [ edit ] At higher road speeds, a properly designed hood scoop known as ram-air intake can increase the speed and pressure with which air enters the engine's intake, creating a resonance supercharging effect. Such effects are typically only felt at very high speeds, making ram air primarily useful for racing, not street performance. Pontiac used the trade name Ram Air to describe its engines equipped with functional scoops. Despite the name, most of these systems only provided cool air, with little or no supercharging effect. [ 2 ] Intercooler scoops [ edit ] Some engines with turbochargers or superchargers are also equipped with top mounted intercoolers to reduce the temperature and increase the density of the high-pressure air produced by the compressor. Channeling outside air to the intercooler (which is a heat exchanger similar to a radiator ) increases its effectiveness, providing a significant improvement in power. Scoop design [ edit ] To be effective, a functional scoop must be located at a high- pressure area on the hood. For that reason, some functional scoops are located at the rear of the hood, near the vehicle's cowl , where the curvature of the windshield creates such a high-pressure zone and may be placed so that their opening faces the windshield (a reversed scoop ). NACA-style hood scoops on the Ferrari F40 . The scoop will be most effective if it is either mounted high enough to clear the boundary layer (the slow-moving air that clings to the surface of a moving object) or if it is a NACA duct , mounted below the surface and designed to draw the faster-moving air outside of the boundary layer into the duct. A shallow scoop that is not a NACA duct may not admit a useful amount of air even if it is open. Under the hood, an effective scoop must funnel air into the engine's intake in as short and direct a path as possible, preferably through a tube or channel that is insulated against underhood heat. A scoop may be part of the hood or may be part of the engine's air cleaner assembly, protruding through a hole cut into the bonnet. Such a scoop is called a shaker hood , because the scoop vibrates noticeably when the engine is running, especially under power. Hood scoops and off-road racing [ edit ] A hood scoop/top mounted intercooler can be beneficial, especially during an off-road rally race. Rocks and debris can be kicked up by a car in front, and those objects can damage a front-mounted intercooler. However, rock guards can be installed to prevent this problem. References [ edit ] ^ "Hood Scoops: Purpose, Pros & Cons | Car Part" . carpart.com.au . Retrieved July 17, 2023 . ^ Wheaton, Ryan (March 12, 2023). "From A12 to Z28: The Ultimate Muscle Car Glossary" . Muscle Cars Illustrated . Retrieved October 11, 2023 . External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hood scoop . v t e Automotive design Part of a series of articles on cars Body Framework Backbone chassis Beltline Body-on-frame Bumper Dagmar Cabrio coach Chassis Continental tire Crumple zone Fender ponton skirts Grille Hood scoop shaker Monocoque Overhang Pillar Platform Quarter panel Roof rack Spoiler Stressed member engine Subframe Tonneau Trunk lid Compartments Hood/bonnet Trunk/boot/dickie Doors Butterfly Canopy Gull-wing Scissor Sliding Suicide Swan Glass Glass run channel Greenhouse Opera window Power window Quarter glass Sunroof Windshield/windscreen washer fluid wiper Other elements Bumper sticker Curb feeler Front-end bra Hood ornament Instruments Japan black Nerf bar Omniview technology Parts Tire/tyre run-flat spare Geometry Approach and departure angles Breakover angle Overhang Ride height Roll center Turning radius Weight distribution Exterior equipment Lighting Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam trafficators Other elements Horn Side-view mirror power Tow hitch Window deflector Legal Registration plate vanity plate Theft Vehicle identification number (VIN) Category Commons Portal Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hood_scoop&oldid=1290101332 " Categories : Automotive body parts Automotive styling features Engine technology Motorcycle engines Vehicle modifications Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use American English from June 2021 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from June 2021 Articles needing additional references from October 2009 All articles needing additional references Commons link from Wikidata