https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a69849705/2005-porsche-carrera-gt-sonderwunsch-restoration

Porsche Porsche's newest Sonderwunsch project might make some people mad. The "Special Wishes" team restored a 2005 Carrera GT to like-new quality, redesigning it to look like the 1970 Le Mans-winning Porsche 917 short-tail race car. While originally finished in silver, the Carrera GT is now bathed in a sea of red that dresses both the bodywork and the bulk of the interior. You're either going to love or hate this one—it's a little too bold for anything in between. Porsche revealed its newest Sonderwunsch project is a factory re-commissioned Carrera GT drenched in Guards Red. Porsche The car was commissioned by Victor Gómez, a Puerto Rico-based Carrera GT owner who sent his 20-year-old car to Porsche to be rebuilt with quite a list of changes. For starters, while the 2005 Carrera GT was originally finished in silver, Gómez asked for his car to be finished in an exterior inspired by the 1970 Le Mans-winning Porsche 917 short-tail race car. For Sale Near You See all results for Porsche for sale near 20147 Nicknamed the "Salzburg Design," the exterior bears the number 23, and the bodywork is blanketed in Guards Red and White paint, with matte black used for accents on the roof panels, A- and B-pillars, and mirrors. The livery is directly inspired by the 917 race car, although it's been adapted to suit the Carrera GT's bodywork better. The red-forward look transfers to the interior as well. The bulk of the interior is covered in Guards red Alcantara, with matte black taking over from white as the secondary color. Porsche Porsche Porsche's factory re-commission isn't just a new paint job and a new interior. Before refinishing the car, Porsche's team completely disassembles it and rebuilds the engine from the ground up, recoating carbon parts while they're at it. The result is a car that, while technically 20 years old, is much closer in reality to a car that just rolled off the factory floor. Porsche doesn't disclose how much a service like this costs, but considering we're talking about a brand willing to charge over $40,000 for special paint, it's sure to be pricey. More on the Carrera GT 2004 Porsche Carrera GT First Drive Tested: Porsche Carrera GT Defines Magnificent Porsche Carrera GT Owners Are Getting Free Tires ➡️ Skip the lot. Let Car and Driver help you find your next car. Shop New Cars Shop Used Cars Jack Fitzgerald Associate News Editor Jack Fitzgerald’s love for cars stems from his as yet unshakable addiction to Formula 1. After a brief stint as a detailer for a local dealership group in college, he knew he needed a more permanent way to drive all the new cars he couldn’t afford and decided to pursue a career in auto writing. By hounding his college professors at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, he was able to travel Wisconsin seeking out stories in the auto world before landing his dream job at Car and Driver . His new goal is to delay the inevitable demise of his 2010 Volkswagen Golf.