https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gainesville_Sun

Coordinates : 29°37′37″N 82°20′25″W ﻿ / ﻿ 29.6269°N 82.3403°W ﻿ / 29.6269; -82.3403 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American daily newspaper in Gainesville, Florida The Gainesville Sun The March 22, 2009 front page of The Gainesville Sun Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner USA Today Co. Publisher Rynni Henderson (2019–present) [ 1 ] Editor Douglas Ray Founded 1876 Headquarters 2700 SW 13th St. Gainesville, Florida 32608-2015 United States 29°37′37″N 82°20′25″W ﻿ / ﻿ 29.6269°N 82.3403°W ﻿ / 29.6269; -82.3403 Circulation 14,389 [ 2 ] ISSN 0163-4925 Website gainesville .com The Gainesville Sun ( ISSN 0163-4925 ) is a newspaper published daily in Gainesville, Florida , United States, covering the North-Central portion of the state. History [ edit ] The paper was founded in July 1876 as the Gainesville Times , by brothers E. M. and William Wade Hampton , and was renamed as The Gainesville Sun in February 1879. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] The paper was first printed on July 6, 1876. [ 5 ] It went through a series of ownership and name changes in the 1880s and 1890s, first being consolidated with Henry Hamilton McCreary 's Weekly Bee as the Gainesville Sun and Bee , then as the Gainesville Daily Sun , and finally back to the Gainesville Sun . [ 3 ] It was bought by W.M. Pepper Sr., in 1917 for $50,000, and was published by the Pepper family for three generations, until it was sold to the Cowles Media Company in 1962. During the time it was owned by the Pepper family (specifically in 1922) an editor at the paper openly admitted his membership in the Ku Klux Klan and praised the Klan in print. [ 6 ] This attitude helps to explain the editorial published in the paper following the Rosewood massacre justifying the actions of the whites, saying "Let it be understood now and forever that he, whether white or black, who brutally assaults an innocent and helpless woman, shall die the death of a dog." Conversely, the Tampa Tribune of the time called it "a lasting blot on the people of Levy county ", [ 7 ] clearly condemning rather than justifying the massacre. In 1971, it was sold to The New York Times Company . [ 4 ] On January 6, 2012, The Gainesville Sun was purchased by Halifax Media Group . [ 8 ] In 2015, Halifax was acquired by New Media Investment Group . [ 9 ] An online edition was launched in 1995, initially called SunOne , and later simply GainesvilleSun.com . [ 4 ] The website is now known as Gainesville.com. In 2005, it launched The Gainesville Guardian , a weekly paper aimed at East Gainesville and the city's African-American population, to mixed opinions. [ 10 ] Awards [ edit ] The Gainesville Sun has won two Pulitzer Prizes : publisher John R. Harrison won in 1966 for his campaign for better housing codes, and editorialist Horance G. "Buddy" Davis Jr. won in 1971 for his editorials in support of peaceful desegregation of the local school system. [ 4 ] References [ edit ] ^ Ray, Douglas (June 17, 2019). "Rynni Henderson named publisher of The Gainesville Sun" . The Gainseville Sun . Retrieved May 12, 2021 . ^ "Member Directory" . Florida Press Association . Retrieved April 10, 2023 . ^ a b Steve Rajtar (2007). A Guide to Historic Gainesville . The History Press. p. 38. ISBN 1-59629-217-2 . ^ a b c d "Covering the Community Since 1876" . The Gainesville Sun . May 26, 2004 . Retrieved February 5, 2008 . ^ "Florida Historical Society wishes Happy Birthday to the Gainesville Sun" . Retrieved July 7, 2014 . ^ Colburn, David R. (Fall 1997) "Rosewood and America in the Early Twentieth Century", The Florida Historical Quarterly , 76 (2), pp. 175–192. ^ D'orso, Michael (1996) Like Judgment Day: The Ruin and Redemption of a Town Called Rosewood ^ Halifax Media purchases 16 newspapers Archived 2012-01-09 at the Wayback Machine ^ New Media Announces Agreement to Acquire Halifax Media Group for $280.0 Million Archived 2016-03-07 at the Wayback Machine ^ "Gainesville's blacks divided on Sun's new community paper" . The Orlando Sentinel . July 25, 2005. External links [ edit ] Gainesville.com , Gainesville Sun home page Today's The Gainesville Sun front page at the Freedom Forum website v t e USA Today Co. People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMA Junkie Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e USA Today Co. regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic La Voz Arizona Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune Courier Journal Courier News Courier-Post The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Tribune The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Montgomery Advertiser The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Press The Newton Kansan Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Tallahassee Democrat Taunton Daily Gazette Telegram & Gazette The Tennessean The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Times Telegram The Topeka Capital-Journal Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus , Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus , Bradford Borehamwood & Elstree Times Brent & Kilburn Times Chard & Ilminster News Craven Herald & Pioneer Daily Gazette , Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo , Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald , Glasgow News Shopper , South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National , Scotland The National , Wales The Northern Echo Darlington & Stockton Times The Press , York Southern Daily Echo , Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Dudley Times Hampshire Chronicle Halesowen News Harrow Times Hereford Times Keighley News Malvern Gazette The Oxford Times Penarth Times Pontypool Free Press St Helens Star Sale & Altrincham Messenger The Shuttle , Worcestershire Stourbridge News Stretford & Urmston Messenger Stroud News & Journal Sutton & Croydon Guardian Times Series , North London Watford Observer Wharfedale & Airedale Observer Wiltshire Times Newsquest magazines and websites in the United Kingdom Exchange & Mart The Strad Predecessors Archant GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Gainesville_Sun&oldid=1327127741 " Categories : Newspapers published in Florida Gainesville, Florida Newspapers established in 1876 Daily newspapers published in the United States 1876 establishments in Florida Gannett publications Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from February 2025 Coordinates not on Wikidata