https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baker_valve_gear

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Mechanism for steam locomotives After about 1910, the Baker valve gear was the main competitor to Walschaerts valve gear for steam locomotives in the United States. Strictly speaking it was not a valve gear but a variable expansion mechanism adapted to the Walschaerts layout replacing the expansion link and sliding die block. The Baker arrangement used more pivot bearings or pin joints , but avoided the die slip inherent to the expansion link, with the aim of lessening wear and the need for service; it could also facilitate longer valve travel. Baker valve gear assembly History [ edit ] In the early 1900s there were many efforts to create a new valve gear to replace the by-then-standard Walschaerts valve gear. In the United States the Young , Southern , Caprotti and Franklin patterns were used on a few classes, but only the Baker pattern won more than limited acceptance. The design originated in the A.D. Baker Company , of Swanton, Ohio ;  a builder of steam traction engines .  The idea came from an employee called Gifford but was developed by the Baker company with the first patents being issued in 1903 [ 1 ] [ 2 ] and with patents issued through at least November, 1912. [ 3 ] The Baker Locomotive Valve Gear was produced by the Pilliod Co. of Swanton, Ohio. Subsequent versions were produced up to the end of steam service. It was particularly popular on the Norfolk and Western Railway , and almost all later N&W engines used it. Other extensive users included the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway , the Nickel Plate Road , the New York Central Railroad and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad . There was always debate about the advantages of Baker gear, the main criticism being the number of pin joints and possible lost motion. While popular with railroads on the east, western states tended to continue with the Walschaerts pattern. In Britain, Baker gear was popular amongst model engineers but in full-size practice the length of the yoke and the width of the assembly may have been difficult to accommodate within the restricted loading gauge. Other locomotives to use Baker valve gear were the New Zealand Railways J class , Ja class , Jb class , some Ka class , and the South Australian Railways 620 class . Operation [ edit ] The Baker valve gear replaces the expansion link of the Walschaerts gear with an assembly of levers and links which produces the same effect of allowing continuous variation valve travel. The remainder of the gear is the same, so that the return crank and combination lever take the same form, although the proportions are usually modified.  The Pilliod Co. sold the gear as a single assembly which was mounted on the frame in the location ordinarily occupied by the Walschaerts expansion link. The Baker mechanism consisted of the following parts: A frame which replaced the mounting for the expansion link. It came in two basic forms, depending upon whether it was attached to the locomotive frame at both ends or only at the front. In either case it had two pivots: one forward and at the top of the frame, and one below and to the rear. A U-shaped reversing yoke which tilted back and forth to control reversing and cutoff. The ends of the yoke's arms pivoted on the rear frame mount, and there was also another pivot mounted near the base of the arm. The yoke was connected at the top to the reach rod leading to the reverser. A pair of swing links which hung from the upper pivot on the yoke. A main link which pivoted in the middle from the lower end of the swing links and whose lower end was connected to the eccentric rod (which in turn connects to the return crank on the driver, as in the Walschaert gear). This link had a characteristic "J"-shape. A bellcrank whose center pivot was the upper, forward mount on the frame, and whose ends were attached to the top of the main link and the radius rod (the connection to the combination arm and thence to the valve). The parts were arranged so that when the yoke was centered, the connection of the main link to the bellcrank was in a line with the two pivots on the yoke. At this point, the back and forth motion of the lower end of the main link left the top relatively motionless as main link swung back and forth on the swing links. In forward motion, the yoke was pushed forward, so that its upper pivot was in front of the bell crank-main link connection. Moving the eccentric arm back and forth lowered and raised the top of the main link. This motion was translated by the bellcrank into back and forth motion of the radius rod. The angle of the yoke controlled the relative motion, and therefore the cutoff; tilting the yoke backwards reversed the motion of the radius rod. References [ edit ] ^ US patent 721994 , Abner D. Baker, "VALVE-GEAR FOR ENGINES", issued 1903-03-03 ^ Blake, LeRoy W. (May–June 1979). "Remembering the A.D. Baker Company" . Farm Collector. Archived from the original on 10 May 2012 . Retrieved 16 November 2011 . ^ US patent 1036058 , Abner D. Baker, "REVERSIBLE VARIABLE-CUT-OFF VALVE-GEAR FOR LOCOMOTIVES", issued 1912-08-10 External links [ edit ] Spare parts brochure from the Pilliod Co. showing the gear mounted on a locomotive and the various models available Winchester, Clarence, ed. (1936), "Locomotive valve gears", Railway Wonders of the World , pp. 1271– 1276 includes a description and illustrations of the Baker valve gear v t e Locomotive design Cab positioning Short hood / Long hood Cab forward Sharknose Steeplecab Cab unit Hood unit Cowl unit Boxcab Comfort cab Dual Control Stand Wheel arrangement AAR wheel arrangement UIC classification Swiss classification Whyte notation Valve gear types Allan Baker Bagnall–Price Baguley Bulleid Caprotti Gab Gooch Gresley Hackworth Joy Kuhn slide Lentz Southern Stephenson Walschaerts Bogie types AAR type A switcher truck Arnoux system Articulated bogie Bissel truck Blomberg B Cleminson system Grovers bogie Jacobs bogie Krauss-Helmholtz bogie Mason Bogie Pony truck Radial steering truck Scheffel bogie Schwartzkopff-Eckhardt II bogie Other running gear elements Adams axle Axlebox Beugniot lever Carrying wheel Coupled wheel Driving wheel Equalising beam Gölsdorf axle Journal box Klien-Lindner axle Leading wheel Luttermöller axle Radial axle Railway tire Road–rail vehicle Trailing wheel Train wheel Wheelset Exhaust system types Giesl Kylchap Kylpor Lemaître Lempor Lemprex Common exhaust system elements Blastpipe Smokebox Chimney v t e Steam engines Operating cycle Atmospheric Watt Cornish Compound Uniflow Valves Valves Slide D slide Piston Drop Corliss Poppet Sleeve Bash Valve gear Gab Stephenson link Joy Walschaerts Allan Baker Corliss Lentz Caprotti Gresley conjugated Southern Mechanisms Beam Cataract Centrifugal governor Connecting rod Crank Crankshaft Tusi couple hypocycloidal straight line mechanism Link chain Parallel motion Plate chain Rotative beam Sun and planet gear Watt's linkage Boilers Simple boilers Haystack Wagon Egg-ended Box Flued Cornish Lancashire Fire-tube boilers Locomotive Scotch Launch Water-tube boilers Babcock & Wilcox Field-tube Sentinel Stirling Thimble tube Three-drum Yarrow Boiler feed Feedwater heater Feedwater pump Injector Cylinder Locomotive Oscillating Single- and double-acting Condenser Condensing steam locomotive Jet Kirchweger Watt's separate "Pickle-pot" Surface Other Blowback Crosshead Cutoff Expansion valve Hydrolock Piston Reciprocating engine Return connecting rod engine Six-column beam engine Steeple engine Safety valve Steeple compound engine Stroke Working fluid History Precursors Savery Engine (1698) Newcomen engine Newcomen Memorial Engine (1725) Fairbottom Bobs (1760) Elsecar Engine (1795) Watt engine Beam Kinneil Engine (1768) Old Bess (1777) Chacewater Mine engine (1778) Smethwick Engine (1779) Resolution (1781) Rotative beam Soho Manufactory engine (1782) Bradley Works engine (1783) Whitbread Engine (1785) National Museum of Scotland engine (1786) Lap Engine (1788) High-pressure Richard Trevithick Puffing Devil (1801) London Steam Carriage (1803) "Coalbrookdale Locomotive" (1803) "Pen-y-Darren" locomotive (1804) Compound Woolf's compound engine (1803) Murray Murray's Hypocycloidal Engine (1805) Salamanca (1812) High-speed Porter-Allen (1862) Ljungström (1908) See also Glossary of steam locomotive components History of steam road vehicles Cugnot's fardier à vapeur (1769) Murdoch's model steam carriage (1784) Lean's Engine Reporter List of steam technology patents Modern steam Stationary steam engine Timeline of steam power Water-returning engine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Baker_valve_gear&oldid=1280276446 " Categories : Locomotive parts Locomotive valve gear Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata