https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glow_plug_(diesel_engine)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Glow plug (diesel engine) ) For the similar device used in model aircraft engines , see Glow plug (model engine) . Heating element used to aid in starting diesel engines A typical glowplug Glowplug in operation In a diesel engine , a glow plug (also spelled glowplug ) is a heating device used to aid starting of the engine in cold weather. This device is a pencil-shaped piece of metal with an electric heating element at the tip. A glowplug system consists of either a single glowplug in the inlet manifold , or one glowplug per cylinder . In older systems, the driver is required to manually activate the glowplug system and wait approximately 20 seconds before starting the engine. Newer systems automatically activate the glowplug(s) before the engine is started and have a quicker warm-up time. Design [ edit ] Glow plugs installed in a small engine (beneath the horizontal bar) Glowplugs are typically used as starting-aid devices, when the engine is being cranked by a starter motor, and in most cases switched off when the engine has reached a defined minimum operating temperature . Diesel engines , unlike common spark-ignition engines , do not use spark plugs to ignite the air-fuel mixture. Instead, they rely solely on compression to raise the temperature of the air to a point where the fuel combusts spontaneously when introduced to the hot, high pressure air. When the engine's surroundings are cold, the air's thermal energy – that it has previously received from the starter motor's compression work – is absorbed by the cylinder head and engine block, and eventually transferred to the air surrounding the engine. When the temperature of the air surrounding the engine comes below a certain value, depending upon cylinder head design, (40 °C for precombustion chamber injected, 20 °C for swirl chamber injected, and 0 °C for direct injected engines), the engine loses too much compression heat to reliably initiate combustion, and the engine fails to start. Glow plugs are used to help overcome this issue by introducing additional heat energy into the combustion chambers. [ 1 ] A glowplug resembles a short metal pencil . The heating element is fitted into its tip. Glowplug filaments must be made of certain materials, such as platinum and iridium , that resist oxidation and withstand high temperature. Certain diesel engines (especially direct-injection engines) do not use starting-aid devices such as glowplugs. Engines with a displacement of more than one litre per cylinder usually incorporate a flame-start system rather than glowplugs, if a starting aid system is required. [ 1 ] Activation method [ edit ] Glowplug indicator light in the dashboard of a car This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. ( January 2023 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) For older vehicles, the driver needs to activate the glow plug for approximately 20 seconds before starting the engine. This is achieved by leaving the ignition switch in the "on" position, and only moving it to "start" once the glowplug has finished pre-heating the engine. Once the engine is running, some cars continue to use the glowplugs until the engine has reached its operating temperature, in order to reduce the diesel exhaust emissions. Similarly, some engines re-activate the glowplugs if the temperature of an engine under light loads reduces below a certain threshold, in order to improve the efficiency of the engine. Many modern engines automatically activate the glowplugs when the operator unlocks the vehicle or opens the door to the car, thus simplifying the process and shortening the waiting time the operator has to wait before the engine will start. In addition, the time needed to pre-heat the engine is typically 6-8 seconds. [ 2 ] Some vehicles include a warning light on the dashboard that extinguishes once the engine is pre-heated. See also [ edit ] Block heater List of auto parts References [ edit ] ^ a b Reif, Konrad, ed. (2014), Dieselmotor-Management im Überblick (in German) (2nd ed.), Wiesbaden: Springer Verlag, p. 136, ISBN 978-3-658-06554-6 ^ Robert Bosch GmbH (2010-03-24). "Glow Plugs" . Bosch. Archived from the original on 2012-07-16 . Retrieved 2012-07-07 . v t e Internal combustion engine Part of the Automobile series Engine block and rotating assembly Balance shaft Block heater Bore Connecting rod Crankcase Crankcase ventilation system (PCV valve) Crankpin Crankshaft Core plug (freeze plug) Cylinder ( bank , layout ) Displacement Flywheel Firing order Stroke Main bearing Piston Piston ring Starter ring gear Valvetrain and Cylinder head Flathead layout Overhead camshaft layout Overhead valve (pushrod) layout Tappet / lifter Camshaft Chest Combustion chamber Compression ratio Head gasket Rocker arm Timing belt Valve Forced induction Blowoff valve Boost controller Intercooler Supercharger Turbocharger Fuel system Diesel engine Petrol engine Carburetor Fuel filter Fuel injection Fuel pump Fuel tank Ignition Magneto Compression ignition Coil-on-plug Distributor Glow plug Ignition coil Spark plug Spark plug wires Capacitor discharge ignition Engine management Engine control unit (ECU) Electrical system Alternator Battery Dynamo Starter motor Intake system Airbox Air filter Idle air control actuator Inlet manifold MAP sensor MAF sensor Throttle Throttle position sensor Exhaust system Catalytic converter Diesel particulate filter EGT sensor Exhaust manifold Muffler Oxygen sensor Cooling system Air cooling Water cooling Electric fan Radiator Thermostat Viscous fan (fan clutch) Lubrication Oil Oil filter Oil pump Sump ( wet , dry ) Other Knocking / pinging Power band Redline Stratified charge Top dead centre Portal Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Glow_plug&oldid=1305009118 " Category : Diesel engine technology Hidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from January 2023 All articles needing additional references