https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unburned_hydrocarbon

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Unburned hydrocarbon" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( December 2009 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Unburned hydrocarbons ( UHCs ) are the hydrocarbons emitted after petroleum is burned in an engine. When unburned fuel is emitted from a combustor , the emission is caused by fuel "avoiding" the flame zones. For example, in piston engines , some of the fuel-air mixture "hides" from the flame in the crevices provided by the piston ring grooves. [ 1 ] Further, some regions of the combustion chamber may have a very weak flame, that is, they have either very fuel-lean or very fuel-rich conditions and consequently they have a low combustion temperature. These regions will cause intermediate species such as formaldehyde and alkenes to be emitted. Sometimes the term "products of incomplete combustion," or PICs, is used to describe such species. Formation [ edit ] This section may be confusing or unclear to readers . Please help clarify the section . There might be a discussion about this on the talk page . ( October 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The hydrocarbon is an auspicious way to reach low NOx (nitrogen oxide) emissions in diesel engines but one of its disadvantages is drastic increasing amount of unburned hydrocarbons. [ 2 ] E standard, one is all metal single- cylinder diesel engine and another is an equivalent optically-accessible engine. References [ edit ] ^ "Air Pollution Control Preventive Measures in Environmental Study" . Free Study9 . 2018-07-18 . Retrieved 2018-07-19 . ^ "Effects of Air Pollution on Human Health" . This article related to natural gas, petroleum or the petroleum industry is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e This article about a hydrocarbon is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Unburned_hydrocarbon&oldid=1197875604 " Categories : Fossil fuels Hydrocarbons Petroleum stubs Hydrocarbon stubs Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2019 All Wikipedia articles needing clarification All stub articles