https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rane_(Madras)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Auto component manufacturer in Chennai, India Rane Limited Company type Public company Traded as BSE : 532661 , NSE : RML Industry Automotive Founded 1929 Founder T. R. Ganapathy Iyer Headquarters Chennai , India Key people L. Ganesh (chair) S. Parthasarat(CEO) Gowri Kailasam(president) Products Manual steering gear products and suspension & steering linkage products Operating income ₹ 67.05 billion (US$790 million) (FY2012-13) Total assets ₹ 34.102 billion (US$400 million) (2012) Parent Rane Holding Limited Website ranegroup .com /rane-madras-limited / Rane (Madras) Ltd is a part of the Rane group of companies involved in the manufacture and distribution of steering and suspension systems. The main components manufactured by the company include Manual Steering Gear Products (SGP) and Suspension & Steering Linkage Products (SSLP). The other products include tie rod assemblies, drag link assemblies, center link assemblies and gear shift ball joints. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Automobile companies that use its products include Ashok Leyland , Volvo , M&M , Tafe , Tata among many others. [ 3 ] Tata motors remains its major customer and is the primary parts manufacturer for Tata's Nano. [ 4 ] The company has also set up a dedicated plant for Tata Nano in Sanand, Gujarat. [ 5 ] The company was forced to change its manufacturing facility from West Bengal to Gujarat after Tata moved out. History [ edit ] Rane group of companies was founded by Shri T. R. Ganapathy Iyer in the year 1929 and the group was originally named as Rane (Madras) Ltd. [ 6 ] It started off as a distributor of automobiles and parts. After his death, the business was taken over by his son-in-law Lakshmana Iyer Lakshminarayan, popularly known as LLN, among friends and business circles. Under the leadership of LLN, the company was shaped into an auto-component business house. LLN remained as the founder chairman of the group for over three decades. [ 7 ] During the early periods. Rane Madras Ltd was engaged in trading only. Later in the year 1960, they completely dropped trading and started manufacturing and it all started with the manufacture of Tie Rod ends at their plant in Velachery, Chennai. Later; as the automobile industry flourished, the business spread to the manufacturing of other suspension and steering systems. As a major turn of events, in 2005 the company was de-merged from the group and the group holding company called Rane Holding Ltd (RHL) and several other subsidiary companies were formed. [ 8 ] It was during this period that Rane (Madras) Ltd emerged as a public limited company . Later, Rane Holding Ltd made additional investment in the company, and thus Rane (Madras) Ltd became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Rane Holdings Ltd. [ 9 ] It remained a major manufacturer and supplier of major OEMs in India and abroad. Over the years Rane (Madras) Ltd has grown to be the largest in the group, both in terms of size and turnover , with five manufacturing plants in Chennai [ 10 ] and Kancheepuram [ 11 ] in Tamil Nadu, Mysore in Karnataka, Thirubuvanai in Pondicherry and Pantnagar in Uttarakhand. Each of the company's production plants addresses a specific industry segment. The production facilities in Mysore cater to the tractor and commercial vehicle segment; the Pondicherry plant to the passenger car segment; the plant in Chennai caters to the light commercial vehicle, heavy commercial vehicle and utility vehicle segment; the Kancheepuram plant to the export market and the manufacturing facility in Pantnagar (Uttarakhand) supplies gears exclusively to Tata Motors Ltd. [ 12 ] The company has also started setting up its plant in Gujarat In 2013 this group merged with GTC inc. (Gaurav Jagannath Rane) Director & S.E.O. References [ edit ] ^ "Product Range of Rane (Madras) Ltd" . Automotive Horizon. 2010. Archived from the original on 30 June 2013. ^ "Rane (Madras) Ltd varanasi plant to produce ball joints" . The Hindu . 24 October 2006. Archived from the original on 29 November 2006. ^ "Market scope of Rane (Madras) Ltd" . Autocar Professional. 27 May 2013. Archived from the original on 2 July 2013. ^ "Rane group to supply parts for nano" . Rediff.com . 19 February 2008. ^ "Rane group's plant in Sanand for Tata Nano" . The Hindu Business Line. 20 December 2009. Archived from the original on 2 July 2013. ^ "The real dharma of Industry" . The Hindu . 26 December 2011. ^ "Chairman Emeritus of Rane group-L.L. Narayan" . Access my Library. 15 January 2001. ^ "Rane Madras demerging its manufacturing division" . The Financial Express. December 2004. ^ "Rane Madras renamed as Rane Holding Ltd" . Access my library. February 2005. ^ "Rane (Madras) Ltd's Varanasi plant" . Autocar Professional. 6 March 2013. [ permanent dead link ] ^ "Rane (Madras) Ltd's kancheepuram plant" . The Hindu Business Line. 26 October 2006. ^ "Rane Madras Ltd-Background" . IndiaInfoline. 2012. External links [ edit ] Official website v t e Automotive industry in India Automotive industry Economy of India Transport in India Indian manufacturers Active Ajanta Group Ashok Leyland Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited Heavy Vehicles Factory Vehicle Factory Jabalpur Ordnance Factory Medak Ather Energy Atul Auto Bajaj Auto KTM Husqvarna Motorcycles Triumph Motorcycles Ltd * Eicher Royal Enfield Escorts Force Hero Hradyesh ICML KAL Mahindra Group Mahindra Reva Mahindra & Mahindra Mahindra Two Wheelers JAWA * Mahindra Tractors Mahindra Truck and Bus Okinawa Autotech Ola Electric Omega Seiki Mobility TAFE Tara International Tata Motors Cars TVS Norton Motorcycles BMW Motorrad * Ultraviolette Automotive Defunct Asia Motor Works Chinkara Hero Motors Hindustan LML Premier Rajah San Motors Sipani Standard Swaraj Mazda Foreign JV manufacturers Active JSW MG SML Isuzu Tata Daewoo Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Tata Marcopolo Defunct Ford India General Motors India Hero Honda Mahindra Navistar Mahindra Renault Components Anand Group Apollo Tyres CEAT JK Tyre Motherson Sumi Systems MRF Pricol Rane Rane Engine Valve Subsidiaries of foreign companies BMW India BharatBenz Mercedes-Benz India Citroën India Fiat Chrysler/Jeep India Honda India Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Honda Cars India Hyundai India Kia India India Yamaha Motor Isuzu Motors India Škoda Auto Volkswagen India Audi India Porsche India Škoda India Volkswagen India Renault Nissan India Nissan India Renault India Suzuki Motorcycle India Maruti Suzuki Toyota India Design studios TACO Faurecia Design Center Other ACMA of India Auto Expo Automechanika Global NCAP NHA of India SUN Mobility * - manufacturing and marketing only - Brand owned by foreign entity Category Authority control databases VIAF Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rane_(Madras)&oldid=1304488555 " Categories : Auto parts suppliers of India Manufacturing companies based in Chennai Indian companies established in 1929 Manufacturing companies established in 1929 Companies listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Companies listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from August 2025 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from May 2021 Use Indian English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English