https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tire_bead

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Term for the edge of a tire that sits on the rim This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Tire bead" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( March 2008 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A tire bead is held in the groove by air pressure. Thomas B. Jeffery 's clincher tire patent. Tire bead is the term for the edge of a tire that sits on the rim . Wheels for automobiles , bicycles , etc. are made with a small slot or groove into which the tire bead sits. When the tire is properly inflated, the air pressure within the tire keeps the bead in this groove. Reducing tire air pressure is a frequent practice among off-road vehicle drivers. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ unreliable source? ] This action widens the tire tread, enhancing the contact surface with the terrain for better traction. However, excessively low pressure can lead to inadequate bead-to-rim pressure, resulting in the bead dislodging from the rim, commonly known as "losing a bead." To address this issue, beadlocks are frequently employed to securely clamp the bead onto the rim. [ 3 ] A rusty bead can seize onto the rim, requiring a bead breaker to free it. Tire beads are made of high-tensile steel cable coated with rubber and are responsible for creating and maintaining a seal between the tire and the wheel. The steel wire used to make tire beads is often plated with copper, brass, or bronze to increase its strength. References [ edit ] ^ Alexander, Don (2009). "Airing Down for Off Road Driving" . Archived from the original on 2013-06-24. ^ "What is the Ideal Tyre Pressure?" . ozzytyres.com.au . October 4, 2023 . Retrieved 2024-02-02 . ^ Simons, Verne (February 10, 2020). "What are Beadlock Wheels?" . Motor Trend . Retrieved 2024-02-02 . v t e Tires Types Tubeless tire Radial tire Low rolling resistance tire Run-flat tire Michelin PAX System Airless tire Tweel Rain tyre Snow tire All-terrain tire Bar grip Knobby tire Large tire Mud-terrain tire Paddle tire Orange oil tires Whitewall tire Aircraft tire Tundra tire Bicycle tire Tubular tire Lego tire Motorcycle tyre Tractor tire Racing slick Formula One tyres Spare tire Continental tire Components Bead Beadlock Tread Siping (rubber) Valve stem Dunlop valve Presta valve Schrader valve Attributes Camber thrust Circle of forces Cold inflation pressure Contact patch Cornering force Ground pressure Pacejka's Magic Formula Pneumatic trail Relaxation length Rolling resistance Self aligning torque Slip angle Steering ratio Tire balance Tire load sensitivity Tire uniformity Lateral Force Variation Radial Force Variation Traction (engineering) Treadwear rating Behaviors Aquaplaning Groove wander Slip (vehicle dynamics) Tramlining Maintenance Tire maintenance Tire rotation Bicycle pump Central Tire Inflation System Tire mousse Tire-pressure monitoring system Tire-pressure gauge Direct TPMS Bead breaker Tire changer Tire manipulator Tire iron Life cycle Tire manufacturing List of tire companies Retread Waste tires Tire recycling Tire fire Blowout Flat tire Ozone cracking Organizations European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation Tire Society Tire Science and Technology Identification Tire code Plus sizing Tire label Uniform Tire Quality Grading (UTQG) Outline of tires Category This article about an automotive part or component is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tire_bead&oldid=1325545845 " Categories : Tires Automotive part stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description with empty Wikidata description Articles needing additional references from March 2008 All articles needing additional references All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from July 2025 All stub articles